=== Why The Eyes Make Or Break A Face | What Makes A Face Attractive Ep. 2 ===
welcome back to the defining beauty
series this week we're looking at the
importance of the eye area and how it
influences you look for those of you
that are new to the series we take a
look at the science behind facial
attractiveness and how certain features
come together to create harmony I do
apologize I'm a bit sick this week so
I'm gonna sound kinda more nasally than
usual I don't know before we begin I'd
like to put out the disclaimer that as
always I'm not trying to single anyone
out or to pick on anyone's looks this
series is all about taking an unbiased
look at what creates facial harmony aka
the study of physiognomy in the last
video I opened with a scientific paper
on the influence of facial components in
determining attractiveness from what I
gathered in the comments the majority of
you chose a or C as expected from the
experiments own results B was determined
less attractive because they had a
greater interpupillary width between the
two eyes this led us to our first aspect
of a good eye area how far apart are the
eyes if you've ever taken an anatomy
class you might be aware that ideally
human eyes should be one eye width apart
he's an article written about a 2008
experiment on specifically
interpupillary distance between the eyes
and how that influences attractiveness
to summarize it for you there's a
certain set of ratios between eye width
and vertical distance from the mouth
your eyes must be within to be
considered attractive faces were judged
as most attractive when the distance
between the eyes were 46 percent of the
faces width and the vertical distance
from the mouth was 36 percent not the
faces length ultimately this correlates
with what we know as the golden ratio
here's a really interesting article on
the topic in the description moving on
the eye shape is significantly important
in identifying faces it's why we censor
only the eye region to maintain privacy
in photos this is because this reason of
your face contains the most detail of
value from tiny fine wrinkles like
crow's feet that indicate that you like
to laugh open mouths the law to larger
identifiers such as your eye shape
without these tools our brain can't
subconsciously fill in the details and
the subject remains anonymous do you
know who this model is you probably
can't tell with the mid face and eyes
covered with the thin bar over the eyes
you still can't tell unless you've seen
this picture before of course
once we reveal the eyes it's pretty
clear that it's Kate Upton no amount of
hiding her nose or her mouth is going to
change that while hiding only the eyes
and not even the entire region we can
obfuscate someone's identity that's how
important your eyes are to
attractiveness I would rate it second
only to the jaw as I'll explain in a bit
now I teach this photo of Tom Cruise
earlier this week
before you learn the terminology try to
think to yourself what's changed between
the two photos and if you find one more
attractive than the other told me in the
comments let's start with the easy ones
his eyebrows are a fair color in men
dark eyebrows are preferred because they
subconsciously indicate youth and
virility the same way male pattern
balding can make you drop a few points
if you don't have the face to match his
eye color is different 10 second Google
will tell you that lighter colors such
as blue and green are considered more
attractive likely to do Eurocentric
beauty standards but I think that's a
very minor issue compared to the bigger
ones bigger issue would be his Calero
show these are your scale error it's a
white around your eyes ideally you want
the skin around your eyes to hide the
scale error below your iris otherwise
you end up looking tired the majority of
people have skill arrow show and almond
shapes like Tom Cruise's eyes are very
rare and typically found in focus
lowered skull shapes because they have a
more prominent brow bone in humans there
are four predominant skull shapes which
influence your final phenotype and I'll
cover this in a future video skill arrow
show isn't a deal breaker because the
majority of us happen but many elect to
get a canthoplasty to achieve the almond
eye look which involves putting a piece
of plastic under the tendon that holds
your lower eyelid and raising the entire
structure in doing so there's less of a
depression in your skin and so there's a
smoother curve from cheek - I notice
that on the right more of his eyes are
exposed they essentially look larger
because his brow bone has been raised in
the Edit it completely changes the look
and makes him seem more bug-eyed rather
than deep-set and mysterious because
anatomically they'd have to be pushed
further out due to less orbital bone
support in anatomy the orbital bones are
the socket burns in case your eye
smaller orbital sockets like Tom's
actual face produce wider more
Desirables shapes than larger orbital
sockets which again are influenced by
skull type more prominent
like features like brow bones I know Tom
isn't a Neanderthal but they indicate
higher testosterone in the womb and have
been linked to more dominant a certain
personalities upon maturation the size
of your eye area also influences your
facial harmony if you have a long face
than your eyes as in the entire
structure and not just the eyeball need
to be physically larger ideally both
vertically and horizontally to stay in
proportion this example covers the same
points as Tom's except for two details
his image didn't have notice how the
upper eyelid covers more of the eyeball
on the left image than the one on the
right which exposes entire eye upper
eyelid exposure is a feature form from
either fat stored above the eye or from
a prominent brow Ridge as more of the
brow spills over the eyes the amount of
eyelid exposed reduces upper eyelid
exposure is undesirable because it makes
you seem tired and gives the impression
of more protruding eyes
aka bug eyes I'll it exposed however
changes throughout the day for most
people take a picture of yourself right
after waking up and compare with one
taking during the midday the image on
the Left also has a negative cantle tilt
which as I explained in episode 1 of the
series makes your face seem saggy and
tired the image on the right has a
positive cam photo which is in harmony
with his face as all of his features
angled downwards and towards a b taper
now that I've covered all of these
features that make up the eye region I
want to emphasize that not all of these
can be split into good and bad desirable
and undesirable between men and women
certain features are considered
masculine and feminine and favor one
gender over the other this is called
sexual dimorphism for instance more
rounded eyes indicate youthfulness and a
more desirable on women than men as such
larger eyes have created a scale arrow
show in this drawing the subject has
round eyes with Calero show but still
looks conventionally pretty but the
exact same features on a guy and it just
doesn't work I just really don't like
Aziz Ansari and everything is fanciful
on the other hand louis Tomlinson has
similar eye features as Tom Cruise and
is considered attractive by
sixteen-year-old teenage girls
everywhere likewise Sendhil Ramamurthy a
sound Indian American actor has the same
masculine features of wider deep set
eyes and a prominent brow bone leading
him to being the poster child of
attractive South Indian guys
every where he also has dark eyes which
are in harmony with his complexion and
so I disagree that having colored eyes
are a desirable feature or at least
place their importance very low to
finish up scientists aren't conducting
these studies to make men and women feel
bad about not having the desirable
features to be considered attractive so
far we know that identifying facial
beauty and harmony occupies six points
of our temporal lobe that's precious
real estate if you're swiping on tinder
research suggests that it takes you less
than three seconds to decide if the
person is attractive or not a separate
meta analysis of our most recent studies
by Syracuse University puts a number at
1/5 of a second to fall in love our
brain knows all of these things
subconsciously because it's in our
biological imperative to choose the best
looking partner this series is all about
putting what we already know in two
words aka defining beauty
[Music]

=== How The Nose Influences Face Shape | What Make A Face Attractive Ep. 3 ===
your nose sometimes it's in the center
of your face sometimes it gets in the
way of a passionate kiss and other times
it's in your neighbors business but that
doesn't make it any less significant in
how it influences your face if you look
at a skull what should be the nose is
actually a cavity it's not defined by
bone like our other features but instead
by cartilage and soft tissue it's one of
the reasons why rhinoplasty is such a
common and relatively minimally invasive
procedure that doesn't mean getting the
proportions right is actually easy the
entire nasal region lies on the maxilla
aka the upper jaw and is the first thing
we need to look at to understand the
role it plays here's where this whole
discussion on mewing comes to place the
skull isn't one solid piece of Bern but
a combination of many pieces joining
together quite like a puzzle the region
where they meet are called sutures and
there's a prominent one that goes across
the maxilla and the brow bone the
concept of mewing suggests that
consistent force from our tongues on the
upper palate of our mouth which is
essentially the maxilla can very slowly
push the maxilla outwards and it's been
found time and time again that children
who don't mouth breed and rest their
tongue on the roof of their mouth
provides sufficient force and support to
desirably shape the Mixel outwards and
outward growing maxilla is important
because it's essentially your mid phase
influencing the appearance of your cheek
bones and the eye socket
aka the orbital bone a well proportioned
face can be split into three third from
the trachea onto glabella glabella to
south nasal and sub nasal to Menten
other than the glabella the terminology
isn't really necessary for the purposes
of this video this is the glabella and
it's understood to be the beginning of
um forehead the smooth part the angle
you nose makes with the forehead is
called a nasal frontal angle and is
within 115 to 130 degrees in general
more obtuse angles look better on women
and more acute ones on men now this
shouldn't be confused with the nazy of
facial angle which is a measure of how
well your nose sits in relation to the
chin and glabella normally within 30 to
40 degrees if the nature of facial angle
is too large then it's more than likely
that the nose protrudes too far from the
face or the opposite and vice versa not
far enough noise projection as shown in
this diagram is measured using Goods
method which is simply a ratio of
horizontal projection to vertical length
of the nasal structure itself normal
ranges are between zero point five five
and zero point six there's also the
nasal mental angle anatomically the chin
is referred to as a mental region and so
the nasal mental determines the angle of
the nose in relation to the chin this
time and not to figure out the
additional criteria some rhinoplasty
surgeons might consider such as the
relationship of the lips where the upper
lip should be four millimeters behind
the nasal mental line and two
millimeters behind at the lower lip or
call you mellow show which determines
how much of your nose interior is
exposed from the side however the
biggest differences in Eurocentric
beauty standards comes from the nasal
labial angle which is a measure of how
upturned or downturn the tip of your
nose and nostrils are this ranges from
90 to 120 degrees with more obtuse
angles being preferred in women and more
acute ones in men this angle is what
gives the impression of the ski slope
button-nose that the majority of
rhinoplasty patients are striving for
now that's a lot of very technical
information I don't expect anyone to
remember but it will help with breaking
down the following 2011 study on nasal
tip projection and facial attractiveness
by the American radiological Society
I'll make a part 2 on nose Anatomy soon
but this information otherwise would
just become too overwhelming for one
video some caveats to note with this
study other there are differences in no
shapes by ethnicities whereas this study
specifically looks at one aspect of the
overall nose shape in this case
projection in the next episode of beauty
culture I'll take an in-depth look at
some of the studies that analyze how
nose anthropometrics change by
geographical climate for this very same
reason the study was done with only
Caucasian women and is performed in the
West so it's safe to assume that they're
following the Eurocentric standard of
beauty when evaluating the nose features
from different test subjects were morph
together while keeping the nose the same
to test its influence on the face nose
projection measurements
were taken using six different methods
the good method being one of the six I
explained earlier and so here are the
results with the most unattractive faces
rated on the top and the most attractive
at the bottom mind you these morphs are
of different features and these faces
don't actually exist in person the study
found that the good method of
measurement was better at predicting
ideal noise ratios as it took into
account total nose length and total face
height which the other ones don't all of
the voted attractive women had an ideal
mentor cervical angle which is a measure
from your chin to your glabella whereas
the unattractive Morse had recessed
shins and less prominent jaws which did
not line up with the glabella the girl
with the lowest Menten cervical angle
actually got the highest mark whereas
the girl with the greatest angle in the
attractive group got the lowest if
anything this study highlights the
importance of the jaw in making the nose
and not the other way around
however some limitations of the study do
exist
the unattractive group do not have clear
skin whereas the attractive group does
similarly the unattractive group have
higher perceived body fat percentages
due to their jaws being less prominent
than the attractive group controlling
for these characteristics would be quite
difficult but they present confounding
effects that would definitely influence
the overall facial attraction as clear
skin and a lean face a universal health
indicators even in a limited group of
caucasian test subjects a separate study
in 2014 found the attractiveness
increase the close of the nose was to
the center of the face straight aligned
noses supports our understanding of
human attraction being in favor of
facial symmetry lastly as the nose
projection deviate away from the ideal
ratios of 0.5 to 0.6 for good and the
five other methods facial attractiveness
goes down which makes sense because as I
covered in beauty culture episode 1
averageness
is a universal Beauty standard that
transcends race and color in human
Beauty which brings me to this vogue
model who's caused a lot of controversy
in China many were quick to criticize
vogue for their choice in casting her as
a representation of China
I feel offended by the Voges aesthetics
wrote in edison questioning why fashion
brands always promote the stereotype of
Asians small ID pie-shaped face while
picking generally recognized beautiful
or handsome faces of Westerners quite
like this one
I personally am kind of done with
unusual beauty it's all gone a bit too
far into disturbing territory now
interesting yes beautiful no bring back
the classic beauties please they exist
in all races think about that for a
second
Chinese citizens are getting upset for
not choosing a Caucasian enough looking
Chinese model to represent China she's
not classically beautiful per se what
does classical beauty even mean the
thing is the overwhelming majority of
this channels audience lives in
westernized countries that follow
Eurocentric standards of beauty even in
China that rather have someone with more
conventionally attractive features if
you read between the lines I mean white
and while Berg's making an effort to
change the standard of beauty it's being
met by criticism from the very same
people it would benefit
[Music]

=== What Makes The Ideal Jaw? | What Makes A Face Attractive Ep. 4 ===
Transcripts are disabled for this video.

=== Facial Neoteny, Youthfulness and Baby-Faced Features | What Makes A Face Attractive Ep. 5 | ===
if an alien zoologist were to study
humans alongside all the other animals
on earth
they'd probably find us to be pretty
strange when one of the few creatures to
care highly about a female partners
attractiveness this is quite paradoxical
because sexual selection impacts males
more intensely than females with
peacocks for example the male has the
brightly colored plumage and the females
are quite bland it's a male peacocks job
to attract the partner and they don't
really care what she looks like male
proboscis monkeys attract partners by
the size of their nose and again they
don't care who the partner is in humans
however physical attraction is a key
component for both genders sexual
selection and facial neoteny by Doug
Jones hypothesizes that we care about
female attractiveness or more
specifically indicators of youthfulness
because we live longer and display more
exaggerated age-related cues if you're
going to choose someone for 50 years
you'd want to choose someone that
indicates that they're going to age well
this is where the concept of neoteny
comes into play fascia mutiny or
juvenile ization is the idea of
retaining baby face features throughout
maturation to understand why we choose
certain features you need to backtrack
to a few steps and we'll take a look at
evolutionary biology we tend to think of
humans as being freed from the
biological impulses that plague lesser
animals the our sexual selections are a
product of centuries of refined culture
and animals are a simple product of
biology and that there's no such thing
as natural human beauty
[Music]
animals like humans can imprint certain
mate preferences influenced early on
during development like when Taylor
Lautner imprints on Bella and Edwards
baby girl even at 14 there was a pretty
weird scene this is an example of
animals experiencing culture on the
other hand in the famous experiment by
longhua in 1987 human infants prefer
more conventionally attractive faces and
spend more time looking at those the
test was repeated with attractive faces
from five different races or producing
the same results this is an example of
human biological preference now a lot of
the scientific literature on the topic
comes from Western society or
western-influenced ones to prove that
youthfulness is a universal feature to
indigenous populations of South America
were contacted the arch a and here we
people in the 1970s after showing them a
set of photos the arch a people as
hypothesized posed the most near to have
spaces in particular East Asian ones
which they had never seen before these
responses are in line with studies
conducted on the Japanese upon their
first contact with the West although all
had a correlation the correlation
between neoteny and attractiveness was
much stronger in the West than in the
indigenous population suggesting both a
universal and culture specific element
to neoteny the reality is our obsession
with youthfulness is partly hardwired
criteria and the remainder is filled in
with learned culture as learning
requires cost we've evolved to have the
basics of genetic attractiveness
pre-programmed from birth to save some
time now there's two theories
surrounding why we like near tennis
faces and youthfulness
one is that it's invariably linked with
fecundity and fertility as males stay
fertile well up into their 60s having
youthful indicators are not a largely
beneficial trait to them however as
females lose fecundity much earlier
these features are all the more valuable
on them in a study by Barry and
MacArthur 1986 men rated the intermedia
Juvenal eyes face as the most attractive
so there's a nuance to neoteny that
needs to be further explored it's not
just the most young looking pace that we
find the most attractive the second
theory presented by Gao ad 1992 and I
paraphrase is that men prefer Juvenal
eyes women so that they feel more
dominant around them and that they
easier to control
however Kenrick in 1994 found that
teenage participants preferred more
mature faces and more mature women than
them putting into question that
selection is all about patriarchal power
and control instead it posits a counter
argument that males prefer peak
fecundity and so that 20 to 30 range
albeit being older than the teenage
participants of the preferred selection
another interesting point about neoteny
is that individuals can be more or less
attractive than others of the same age
in part because they have facial
proportions associated with younger or
older ages the best example is Angelina
Jolie who's considerably older than
other Hollywood stars but is still
considered a beauty icon because of her
near to nice features her slightly
larger rounded forehead full cheeks and
flat nose bridge contrast with her adult
current features of having a very strong
jaw and maxilla she is the perfect
example of an intermediate juvenile ice
face that has the best of both worlds
another example that I covered last week
was the Audrey Hepburn her at age 60
still looks better than most people
because she has very similar features in
particular the forehead shape albeit her
jaw is a bit less prominent the reason
we associate cuteness with youth is
because of how baby's craniofacial
features develop when they're young the
skull and it's housing top-heavy because
the main features of aging the jaw saw
the masseter muscles and the nose
haven't developed yet through
development phases become more
bottom-heavy
and this process is modeled by a
mathematical transformation called a
carrier doll strain
so female attractiveness and neoteny is
not really determined by one individual
feature per se but their relationship in
harmony to others and how they fit this
ideal carrier door map
upper and middle third features ammonia
tonus when stretched out and exaggerated
laterally and hence rounded foreheads
large eyes and flat nose bridges pair so
well with contrasting least strong jaws
in one study adjusting the carrier doll
strain positively resulted in low
attractiveness ratings for both men and
women adjusting the strain negatively so
more top-heavy and newtonís resulted in
higher ratings for women and lower ones
for men conventionally unattractive
female test subjects benefited heavily
from a more near tonight's morph while
the attractive and intermediate groups
didn't as much inversely for men the
most attractive men were impacted the
most heavily from here tonight features
while the intermediate and low groups
benefited more from this we can gather
that having a near tennis face is a more
logarithmic diminishing return benefit
to attractiveness much like high in both
men and women it's important up until a
certain point where it's just not as
beneficial anymore however Newton e acts
inversely in men and women being a
benefit to one and a cost to another in
another study by doctorate students and
models had their cemetry measured with
the models as expected having more near
tennis faces with everything being a
slight few standard deviations larger in
the upper and middle third I found is
pretty funny but the predicted age for
the models was an average of seven years
and the students got twenty as Doug
State said this does not mean that
facial proportions of models match those
of real seven year old since the ages
predicted by these equations are based
on naive linear extrapolation of
age-related changes in adult facial
proportions human faces obviously don't
age linearly it's much faster during
puberty and continues on slowly forever
if adjusted for non linear extrapolation
our guests at the models look around
eighteen and the average students look
around thirty because the difference
between the extrapolated twenty and
seven is still quite large
I guess this helps explain Leos dating
choices there is a very real and social
benefit to yo Tony baby face features
get more help from others in this study
participants were given equal resumes
the only variants being their resume
photos were more to be more or less not
earnest or mature they then went around
losing these resumes randomly around
metropolitan areas in Nairobi Kenya and
the US and measuring how many were
actually returned three out of the four
groups that did benefit from having more
newtonís features which is represented
by the line in gray from the same study
in your Tunis faces were also seen as
more submissive and weak across both
genders take from that way you will but
you can play it to your advantage and
have the best of both worlds take David
laid on YouTube no one is going to call
him submissive to his face
quick announcement we have a Twitter now
and we post a lot of the things that we
can't fit into a video during our
research but we still think you can
benefit from like did you know that baby
face defendants get a lower conviction
rate for the same crime

=== Prominent, Protruding Ears and Facial Aesthetics | What Makes A Face Attractive Ep. 6 ===
If there’s one facial stigma that gets more
negative responses than others, its prominent
ears or bat ears.
This class one abnormality is entirely cosmetic
and isn’t serious enough to be life threatening
and so makes for easy pickings without feeling
guilt or pity, especially by children.
Children pay more attention than adults to
small differences in appearance between themselves
and others and so when they see someone with
large, protruded ears, they become the butt
of all jokes which has serious behavioural
effects growing up.
Studies show that.
protruding ears have been associated with
inferior cognitive performance at school,
immaturity, less favorable personality traits,
diminished self-confidence, and social avoidance.
Children act out as a result of their facial
features without themselves understanding
the serious downward spiral at play.
Measuring the effect of corrective otoplasty
(where the ear is pinned back) using tests,
such as the Child Behavior Checklist, the
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory for Children,
and the Children’s Depression Inventory,
revealed improvements in almost all the assessed
items after the procedure.
In the media they pick characters with protruded
ears to portray low intelligence.
In fact, large, prominent ears elicit more
negative reactions in both the patient and
onlookers than any other feature.
One such reason could be that it affects only
5% of the population with facial deformities,
which itself is 10% of the total population.
In Germany it was estimated to be between
1:2000 to 1:20000 births having an ear related
deformity.
It has a rarer occurrence and so it’s all
the more noticeable when someone does have
it.
It’s unlike having a big nose, thin lips
or a large forehead, because those features
are more common in certain ethnicities than
others.
Now Ear length and size does vary by ethnicity
with the Indian subcontinent having the largest
and Afro Carribeans having the smallest, however,
unless you’re a bat, protruded, outward
turned ears are not a feature of any ethnicity
and instead vary by individuals.
Proposed causes may include genetic factors,
point mutations, but also environmental influences
during pregnancy, such as exposure to X-rays,hypoxia,
as well as the intake of certain drugs, such
as thalidomide
Ear anatomy is defined by many different parameters
because its such a unique and complex shape
so we’ll go through them as they appear.
Protruded ears have a combination of three
main features to them: 1) an increased helix
mastoid angle which is the angle between the
helix or the top of the ear and the angle
it forms with the head.
This causes more of the ear to be more exposed
and rounded from a frontal view like a cartoon
monkey.
Sometimes even with a normal helix mastoid
angle, the ear may still appear protruded
due to antihelical hypoplasia where the antihelical
structure isn’t fully formed to pin the
ear back.
The antihelical structure is the part of the
ear the curves backwards towards your head
right at the end.
Without it, the ear curves outwards like a
fleshy sound collecting bowl.
Research by Alexander Et al 2010 shows that
an unfolded or incomplete antihelix accounts
for 73% of the ear’s prominence
Hypoplasia means incomplete development, Hyperplasia
refers to enlargement or over development.
Which leads us to the third way of defining
a protruded ear, cavum hyperplasia where an
overdeveloped cavum curves the entire ear
structure and pushes the earlobe and helix
out further, making them more prominent.
In contrast, a normally developed ear has
a distance of 6 -20mm from the helical rim
and the head with a helix mastoid angle of
less than 30 degrees.
As previously explained this angle is the
angle between your ear’s external structure
and the head, like a door hinge.
Having an ideal helical distance is then obviously
dependent on having an ideal ear angle by
simple trigonometry.
These cutoffs were chosen by finding an acceptable
average from 100 adults and 50 children (Rubin
1962).
There were no significant variations in prominence
by gender or race in another study of 2300
ears although ear size and shapes do vary.
Also, the axis of the ear should be near parallel
to the bridge of the nose and the auricle
should be approximately one auricular length
(55-70mm) behind the lateral orbital margin.
The ear is an organ consisting of an internal
and external structure and so auricle refers
to the entire outer structure.
Lateral means towards the sides and orbital
margin means the perimeter of the orbital
bone as explained in Episode 2.
So in other words the ear should be one ear
width behind the eye socket.
Lastly, the ear width (auricle width) should
be 50-60% of the ear’s length (30-45mm width,
55-70mm length)
Aesthetically speaking, is this an issue worth
correcting?
One otoplasty paper suggests getting it corrected
at the ages of 5-6 years before starting school
to avoid the previously mentioned negative
psychosocial traits associated with protruded
ears.
At that age, it’s known that children can
convey their dissatisfaction and often it’s
the parents who want the surgery done for
them.
The reality is, protruding ears are such a
polarizing issue that the people who have
them either feel strongly enough to have them
corrected very early on or don’t bother
to ever.
Research by Alexander Et al found that what
the researchers rated as ‘clinically’
prominent were very rarely considered as prominent
by the test subjects in both men and women.
So it might not be a big of a deal as you
get older and ‘grow’ into them.
The likelihood is that the majority of the
people watching this video have anatomically
regularly shaped ears.
How you feel about them beyond that is influenced
by culture and beauty standards which is a
different topic.
For instance a modelling beauty standard encourages
a lower helix - mastoid angle to get a more
swept back, high fashion look.
If prominent ears are considered unattractive,
then it would make sense that swept back ears
with a low helical angle would be conventionally
attractive, regardless of the ear shape.
So this week, I put out a poll asking what
video people wanted to see and the defining
beauty series won out overwhelmingly so that's
why there’s back to back uploads this week.
A couple of updates, we’re 2-3 days away
from the launch of our Facial aesthetics report
depending on your timezone.
The report analyzes your face and applies
cephalometric measurements, much like the
ones covered in this video on the ear, but
for every facial feature to help you make
more informed decisions.
Depending on the tier you choose, they go
more or less in depth and we’ve really tried
to price them so that they’re accessible
to everyone but also balances our time and
resources too.
Lastly, if you're new to the channel, do subscribe,
we’re almost at 100k.
There’s really interesting research coming
out on how attractive faces can dilate our
perception of time which we’ll be covering
very soon.

=== What Makes For Attractive Lips? | What Makes A Face Attractive Ep. 7 ===
the lips are arguably one of the most
expressive parts of the human face
psychologist Albert Mehrabian once
described that 738 55 rule that 7% of
our communication is verbal and 93% is
nonverbal expressive elements such as
the lips and eyes are important to
aesthetic because how they look at rest
determines how you're perceived fuller
functional lips appear youthful and
desirable while protruding unfunctional
lips indicate underlying dental
conditions if you look at conventionally
attractive people throughout the world
especially women you'll come to notice
that what we consider to be full plump
and desirable lips vary greatly in size
and shape by geographic regions in one
study live attractiveness across
cultural analysis scientists concluded
that we do indeed have different
standards for what we consider
well-developed lip by burying lip sizes
in a survey who are able to get
responses from participants both plastic
surgeons and laypeople in all corners of
the globe one set of results showed that
surgeons in Asia preferred on average
considerably larger lips with one being
the smallest and seven being the largest
in contrast European surgeons prefer the
smallest now here's the interesting
point those were plastic surgeons when
taking the results of laypeople the
Asian lay person the average person
prefers the smallest lips far smaller
than anything their own surgeons would
suggest at three point seven six versus
the surgeons four point seven two for
Latin Americans it's the exact opposite
wanting for bigger lips at four point
five six compared to their surgeons at
four to emphasize this is a very big
difference it's a full lip size up these
results do not vary significantly across
gender ethnicity age or income so why is
there such a big discrepancy between
surgeons and laypeople one reason could
be that surgeons assess faces clinically
using proportions and guidelines they
take a tailored approach to what best
suits the individual phase whereas the
average person seeks these enhancements
to improve their staff
in the greater community and so what the
community finds attractive is what they
find attractive it's a one size fits all
ideology that's unhealthy it's like
trying to have Kylie Jenner lips on a
long narrower face whereas she has a
heart-shaped one a surgeon wouldn't
allow it because it's so
disproportionate but I'm sure we all
know people who are after the look
regardless of whether it suits their
face or not
on the other hand surgeons may
overestimate what the layperson actually
wants they know full well the
capabilities and limitations of their
practice so in places like Latin America
and for having big everything surgeons
may try to recreate that look because
it's such a popular stereotype without
actually keeping up with current beauty
trends clearly this is a debate of
cultural vers biological beauty
standards we've explained the concept
before on the channel but it's important
to distinguish that having naturally
full lips is considered attractive
universally that's a biological Beauty
standard because it indicates youth and
fertility the cultural component comes
from what we consider full full
Caucasians with naturally thin lips this
might be 30% larger for Latin Americans
with naturally large lips this might be
5% larger the study did fail to get data
on African lip sizes which would have
been pretty interesting black
individuals do tend to have the thickest
lips by both ethnicity and a higher
propensity for alveolar protrusion
meaning that the upper lip sticks out
more prominently another reason is that
they age less severely from the Sun due
to having higher melanin which protects
their skin and as a result their
Vermillion tends to retain its volume
regardless of age according to Baldwin
avidya full lips contribute to the
attractiveness of a female face together
with large eyes prominent cheekbones
thin eyebrows and a small nose and chin
the center of the face thus consists of
baby-like features while the periphery
implies sexual maturity interestingly
here at all reported that females prefer
fuller lips to a greater degree than do
males so it really is a universal Beauty
standard for both genders
so how can we define the ideal lips the
lips should begin a third of the way
down in the lower third the ideal law of
facial height in contemporary idealized
females and males is 45 and 48 percent
of the total face height respectively
you know that characteristic fish lip
effect that's a dead giveaway for lip
fillers the shape of the lip is
incredibly important as you fill lips up
with hyaluronic acid it changes the
shape of the lips because it's a
confined space by increasing lip masses
there's great attention that curves the
lip plumper lips accentuate the natural
curves of the lips more which is not so
great when you're trying to close them
back together this leaves a gap lip
posture or the resting position of the
lips is used to define facial
expressions to get an adequate lip seal
and be functional the lips need to come
together at rest if they don't some try
to hide it by pushing harder against the
lips or by shifting them around this is
problematic because poorly formed lips
at rest and to give a permanent
mouth-breather appearance another factor
to consider is the lip contour having a
philtrum that's considerably shorter
than their corners of your mouth results
in a snout like inverted arc this is
most commonly seen in children as the
lips grow faster than the jaw vertically
and so this deformity usually evens out
through our adolescence also negatively
contoured lips gives the appearance of
having a permanent frown at rest
following on with contour is also lift
curl averted lips may be caused by
having a protruded maxilla which can
curl the top of the lip outwards which
gives an undesirable shape a line drawn
from the upper lip to the sub nasal
would leave about one to three
millimeters ideally lastly determining
how much is too much is also quite
important drawing an aesthetic a line
defined by our M Ricketts should leave
about four to six millimeters from the
upper lip and two to four from the lower
in grown white Caucasians women tend to
have slightly greater lip prominence as
they have a lesser nose projection a
more Universal aesthetic measure would
be to use the writer plane where a line
tangent to the upper and lower lips
should all
I passed through the chin in general for
all races the upper lip should rest
slightly more prominent than the lower
the keyword being slightly so that
concludes this segment on lips there's a
whole lot of numbers terms and content
being thrown around in this video but
the biggest takeaway it was the part on
lip size trying to get a shape and size
that's not made for your face or
ethnicity is a recipe for disaster
[Music]

=== Facial Symmetry and Asymmetry | What Makes A Face Attractive Ep. 8 ===
In the Evolutionary Psychology of Facial Beauty
by Gillian Rhodes, a paper that’s cited
on the channel all the time, symmetry, averageness
and sexual dimorphism are the three big indicators
of attractiveness. In the defining beauty
/ what makes a face attractive series, the
episodes put out so far talk cover just ⅓
of this attractiveness trifecta, the averageness
part. They discuss what the ideal values are
by different races, genders and cephalometric
regions and while we’ll continue putting
out more videos on different parts of the
face, it’s important to not neglect the
other 2 important aspects to beauty.
The idea goes that symmetry indicates mate
quality and strong genetic health. In her
paper Rhodes cites that the likelihood of
asymmetries in human bodies occuring increase
with inbreeding, premature birth, psychosis
and mental retardation[a]. Further studies[b]
from the late 20th century show that artificially
making faces symmetric increases their attractiveness
although their facial features remain the
same. On the other hand, asymmetry is equally
undesirable in animals. There’s many biological
reasons from a loss of genetic variance to
heterozygosity but let's just say if a bird
is born with asymmetrical wings, it’ll die
very quickly to natural selection. This type
of example is due to fluctuating asymmetry
as it’s individual specific.
It’s important to distinguish between the
two types of symmetry:
Fluctuating refers to random deviations from
perfect symmetry, e.g. nemo with his deformed
flipper would die real quick if it wasn’t
a disney movie.
Directional symmetry is where there is a bias
towards one side, e.g. left and right handedness
with 85% being right handed. Directional symmetry
can be consistent across an entire population
and so it doesn’t signal mate quality since
everyone is the same and our perceptions adapt
to where it becomes unnoticeable[c] unlike
fluctuating.
It’s worth noting that In Symmetry and Human
Facial Attractiveness by Perrett and colleagues
it states that some degree of asymmetry may
actually be desirable to make the individual
more expressive. During speech 76% make greater
right handed gestures than left. Likewise
Wylie and Goodale 1988 found that spontaneous
facial expressions are more asymmetric than
posed ones, but somehow found more attractive.
It’s sort of like how raising one eyebrow
is seductive but raise both and you look like
a surprised barn owl.
Perfect symmetry is near impossible to achieve.
A small degree of bilateral asymmetry is to
be expected on every face, even our brains
are asymmetric with left and right handedness.
It only becomes a problem when it’s blatantly
noticeable. Research by Peck Et[d] al found
that asymmetry is greatest in the jaw, so
the lower third and least in the cranium or
the upper third. Another study by Severt and
Proffit[e] recorded that only 5% of asymmetry
cases were found in the upper third, 36% in
the midface and 75% in the lower third. Why
is that?
One hypothesis that I’d like to throw out
there, is that our dentofacial growth is somewhat
determined by our diets. This was also the
conclusion of Canadian dentist, Dr Weston
Price, who compiled numerous data on how soft,
Western diets lead to misaligned tooth eruption.
Could it be that the most kinetically active
part of our face, the jaw, is most prone to
asymmetry because it’s dependent on so many
factors for proper growth. The side you predominantly
chew your food on will have more developed
masseter muscles than your weaker side, that’s
a common asymmetry. Conversely, the cranium
just grows outwards, free from constant movement
or external force so it’s much less prone
to asymmetry. The midface is intermediate
because it contains a lot of complex soft
tissue structures like the eyes and nose so
it’s easy to imagine how the cells might
mess up duplication although they’re under
a lot less physical stress unlike the jaw.
But again, this is just my own personal conjecture.
In 1997 Moller and Thornhill found a weak
but significant correlation regarding the
heritability of asymmetry, but it’s still
a hotly disputed topic. If asymmetry is truly
heritable, then this theory I’ve proposed
goes out the window and you should just pick
new parents next time.
Although the causes of asymmetry are endless,
clinical scientists can break them up into
three categories:
* Malformations: a morphological (shape) related
defect resulting from an abnormal development
process
* Deformation: a defect caused by getting
punched in the face by sonny liston
* Disruption: morphological defect caused
by a breakdown in the development process
The most common way of assessing symmetry
is with a bilateral flip where you take a
face, cut it down the facial midline, typically
the philtrum and compare the two sides but
if you’ve ever tried this for yourself with
enough faces you’ll notice a few weaknesses
in this method. Going back to G. Rhodes, she
calls out these limitations too and I paraphrase,
in taking a hemispherical flip of a face,
a very slight tilt of the head or a slight
deviation from the front on view amplifies
the asymmetry in the resulting chimera image.
In other words, images appear abnormally wide
or narrow and this greatly affects attractiveness
results.
A better way is to blend the original face
with the flipped face to offset any angle
or tilt errors in the original image which
is how we now do it for every QOVES facial
report.
In the Perrett study I mentioned earlier,
they use a third method where they physically
straighten asymmetries using the 1999 equivalent
of the liquify tool. Figures c) and d) are
the midline flips (chimera) while b) is the
new method of manually adjusting 224 facial
points for perfect symmetry.
There isn’t really much to say with bilateral
symmetry. It’s either noticeable or it isn't.
Generally the most noticeable asymmetries
are in the eyes as we obviously look at that
first on a face. This is seen as a deviation
in the canthal tilt or the eyelid contour
where ptosis causes the upper eyelid to droop
lower than the other. From what I’ve seen,
the lower eyelid doesn’t seem to be as asymmetric
as the upper.
After the eyes we look to the nose because
it’s also a large, salient part of the face.
In terms of bilateral asymmetry it’s usually
in the nasal bridge where most people have
a crooked nose bridge that’s noticeable
because the nose is dead center on the facial
midline. The nose base and nose tip aren’t
as common because they’re smaller in the
case of the tip or further from the line in
the case of the nose alars.
When assessing symmetry, especially for the
nose and eyes it’s best to use what’s
known as transverse symmetry where horizontal
reference lines are drawn to assess how well
facial features are spatially related. Ideally,
on a well formed face transverse lines should
be horizontal to the occlusal plane. The occlusal
plane is the imaginary plane made by your
upper and jaw coming together at rest. If
for whatever reason the maxilla or mandible
is rotated or tilted this plane very clearly
tilts too and is no longer parallel to the
interpupillary line. When this happens it’s
called canting in dentistry and it’s clear
to see from both views how it causes a noticeable
asymmetry, even if you keep your lips sealed.
This is just the tip of the iceburg but there’s
numerous similar asymmetries, the majority
of which occur in the jaw and lower third.
Here is an example of lateral mandibular displacement
where the lower jaw is very clearly misalligned
and Chin asymmetry, where the jaw is aligned
but the chin isn’t.
For the majority of the people watching, these
more serious cosmetic and dentofacial defects
likely won’t apply to you. In all of the
facial reports the QOVES team has done so
far I don’t recall ever seeing any of these
asymmetries we’ve just gone over.
These more serious defects create underlying
biomechanical issues and so they’re corrected
early on in the interest of health.
Although we know asymmetry is undesirable
for attraction, science has been unable to
properly quantify what types of asymmetries
are worse. Is a crooked nose worse than a
malformed jaw? Is a case of ptosis worse for
aesthetics than a maxillary cant? In 1993
Jones and Hill tried to quantify fluctuating
asymmetry but produced a limited test of only
6 traits. Also it lacked repeatability so
it’s virtually unusable, but it did create
a foundation to jump off of. Grammar and Thornhill
in 1994 devised a method by summing the offset
of asymmetrical facial features from the facial
midline.
For most people, asymmetry is actually quite
easy to correct. Fillers can help produce
a more even facial contour for example Botox
in the eyebrows or forehead can raise one
side to appear even. Another method is with
a rhinoplasty to straighten the nasal bridge,
which is one of the more noticeable asymmetries.
As for the jaw, if it’s an underlying dentofacial
alignment issue, implants aren’t going to
do you much good but if it’s a case of weak
growth, then implants can go very far in correcting
asymmetry, especially since they’re 3-D
printed to the client’s needs.
And with that, we bring this episode to a
close. Hopefully you learned something, the
idea is to make longer 10 minute videos moving
forward to explore the concepts in greater
depth and clear up confusion. If you want
us to test your facial symmetry and many other
proportions, be sure to check out the QOVES
facial report. All of the behind the scenes
for our content is available at Patreon and
lastly follow the QOVES Studio Instagram page.
It’s being revived with fresh content and
daily uploads. A lot of different testing
with Marquardt masks, other proportion masks,
proportion lines and symmetry so we need your
feedback on what edits look attractive to
improve our algorithm for Photoshopping faces.

=== Why Unhealthy Skin Affects Your Appearance | What Makes A Face Attractive Ep. 9 ===
The large majority of research in the field
of aesthetics and cognitive psychology focuses
on morphological features such as the nose,
eyes, lips and facial shapes with symmetry
and dimorphism.
These are inherently salient aspects of the
face that we notice, whether they’re proportionate
or disproportionate, attractive or unattractive.
However there’s one aspect we fail to pickup
on, the skin.
Much like an unstealthy ninja, you only notice
it when it’s bad but as preliminary studies
by Morris 1967 and Symons 1979 have found,
healthy looking skin is an important determinant
of human physical attractiveness.
Well kept skin is taken as a ‘perceived
health trait’ (Grammar and Thornhill 1994)
although whether it’s a good indicator of
actual physical health, remains to be tested.
In one 2002 experiment by Jones Et al [a]
different patches of male skin were shown
to female participants, with each patch varying
by complexion, tone, evenness and blemishes
to find a correlation for attractiveness.
Likewise, a full face morph was created with
deliberately adjusted skin tones, with the
paler, uneven skin on the right being found
to be unhealthier than that of the left.
Healthier looking skin did significantly correlate
with attractiveness.
More importantly, it shows that changing just
one aspect of the face, something that for
most people, doesn’t require surgical intervention,
can have a large impact.
So how can we define healthy skin?
In a 2014 study by Cruz and Mullet[b], there
was a notable correlation with preferred skin
tone and attractiveness for both Mozambican
and French participants.
This study is from a strictly biological perspective
that compared different combinations of attractive
African and European features on different
skin tones.
In other words, Koinophillic or genetically
average faces for that particular race were
more attractive.
Having pale skin on African features becomes
incredibly polarizing and vice versa.
White Kanye just doesn’t feel the same.
One interesting point from this study is that
it equates the social benefits of darker skinned
Africans bleaching their skin to be a few
shades lighter to be as equally as unfruitful
as Europeans tanning their skin to be a few
shades darker.
Having an even complexion is more important
than trying to artificially change the colour
of your skin otherwise your facial features
won’t match.
Fink Et al[c] showed that in 2001 with greater
skin homogeneity, i.e. the colour correlation
of neighbouring pixels as being perceived
as more attractive.
The study also found smoother skin texture
to be more attractive on women as an indicator
of immune health but did not support the theory
that men find women with paler skin to be
more attractive as initially proposed by Van
den Berghe and Frost 1986[d].
Lastly, slightly reddish skin was perceived
as healthier and bluish as unhealthier although
this particular study is limited to only Caucasian
faces unlike the previous.
To achieve a more homogeneous skin, it’s
important to talk about blemishes and their
impact.
From Jaeger Et Al’s 2018[e] study on blemishes,
cosmetic skin flaws are more closely linked
to trait perceptions rather than simply attraction.
In fact, the presence of blemishes may be
a more salient indicator of health than smoothness
due to humans evolving with a host of skin
diseases from the malignant smallpox to benign
acne.
Even the slightest skin blemishes can be a
hit to facial attractiveness as Nesse 2005[f]
and Zebrowitz [g]and Rhodes 2004 found because
the cost of a false positive (failing to identify
sickness) outweighs the cost of a false negative
(avoiding a healthy person).
This heightened sensitivity to diseases causes
acne to be such a troubling condition for
young adolescents when their self esteem is
at its most vulnerable.
From the 2018 Jaegar Et al study, the negative
effect of blemished skin outweighs the positive
benefits of smooth skin.
From that same paper, the benefits of smooth
skin are halved when paired with skin blemishes.
Lastly, people with high pathogen disgust,
we all know someone like that, perceived unattractive
participants as even more unattractive compared
to those with low pathogen disgust (Park Et
al 2012).
This is because of what I mentioned at the
beginning on blemishes being linked with trait
perception, essentially making it out to be
worse than it is.
These are very important nuances to skin blemishes,
because if you’re in the large majority
of this channel’s demographic of young adults,
chances are you’ve dealt with or are dealing
with skin blemishes at some point in your
life.
The most common blemish would likely be acne
vulgaris.
Although its common to have the occasional
singular breakout here and there, which isn’t
acne, a larger systematic breakout most likely
would be.
Propionibacterium Acnes is an anaerobic bacteria
that resides on everyone’s skin.
It has the role of being a powerful immunostimulant
for the skin but only ever grows uncontrollably
if certain skin terrain conditions are met,
most commonly during puberty.
Being a skin disease, I see a lot of people
with severe acne refuse to visit a dermatologist
because they’ve been taught that it’s
from a lack of cleanliness.
Obsessively cleansing your skin to get rid
of excess oil only makes your body produce
more which in turn creates more comedones
that disrupt your skin’s microstructure.
Acne is problematic, not because it looks
and feels bad for the time being, but because
it can leave serious scarring in the long
term.
This scarring reduces your skin smoothness
and acts as a notable blemish, which as we’ve
just learnt is a double no-no.
Acne, much like most skin diseases are treatable
with modern medicine.
r/skincareaddiction is great for establishing
a routine, but like with most bacterial infections,
antibiotics are the more permanent fix.
For those that don’t respond to broad spectrum
antibiotics such as Doxycycline, dermatologists
in certain countries can prescribe Accutane
(isotretinoin) which is the only prescribed
medication that targets the root cause of
acne, excess oil production, by shutting it
off completely.
It’s about as heavy duty as acne medication
gets and you can imagine how turning off an
entire feature of the body can result in a
very long potential side effect list for legal
reasons.
Accutane itself is the brand name which was
taken off the shelves by Roche, the major
producer, due to being hit with many personal
injury lawsuits over the course of its product
cycle.
The most concerning side effect being depression
but a 2017 meta analysis by the American Academy
of Dermatology[h] found that its use is not
linked with depression and that curing acne
actually helped with reducing it.
The drug faced highly publicised cases too
where in the 2000s a US congressman blamed
Accutane for the death of his 17 year old
son[i], but again another 2016 study found[j]
weak to no links between Accutane and depression.
It could be that the people suffering from
acne serious enough to take Accutane are already
at their weakest mental state and a lack of
improvement or response to the drug may be
enough to cause them to lose hope.
There are definitely more confounding effects
at play surrounding Accutane that makes it
so controversial and difficult to study.
For instance, all of these studies have a
low sample size because it would be unethical
to give it to moderately healthy participants
due to its severity.
Another main concern of the drug is the increased
risk of bowel disease, but this was refuted
by a 2016 meta analysis by the European Journal
of Gastroenterology finding no increased risk.
So how does this relate to aesthetics?
This part is purely my own opinion and while
the previous was backed by scientific fact
and research, this is anecdotal.
Many years ago, I asked my dermatologist for
accutane when antibiotics weren't working.
My acne was moderate at worst, I don’t have
any pictures, but it was resilient and physically
painful.
The bigger concern was the presence of acne
scarring if I left it untreated and let nature
take its course.
It started working very quickly and the most
serious side effect I ever got was extreme
dryness on my forearms.
My experience with it was very positive and
it completely cleared it up with no scars
and smooth, even skin.
From what we know about the importance of
healthy skin, if you’re suffering from acne,
it is worth seeing your dermatologist on ways
to clear it up, rather than buying L’oreal’s
new $2000 face cleansing cream.
In terms of aesthetic gain, I’d argue that
its one of the highest, if not the highest
because it’s non surgical and strongly correlated
with trait perception.
Some people completely don’t respond to
medication while others find its side effects
too strong and there are alternatives to medication
such as microdermabrasion, but with 80% of
the population relating to the struggle, it
should be a top aesthetic priority.
And with that, we bring this video to a close.
While the idea was to fit in wrinkles and
fine lines in the same video, that’s a large
topic that deserves its own episode so do
subscribe to catch that next week.
As always, leave your suggestions down below
and if you would like for us to analyze your
face and give you the rundown on your own
features, order an aesthetics report at the
QOVES site.

=== How Skull Shapes Determine Facial Aesthetic | What Makes A Face Attractive Ep. 10 ===
Phrenology is the outdated study of linking
skull shape to personality.
While the measurement of skull shape and morphology
has strong roots in actual science, phrenology
makes assumptions beyond what is provable.
When German Physician, Franz Joseph Gall developed
his theory of phrenology in 1796, his studies
focused mainly on the neurocranium, the housing
of the brain as he believed it to shape the
formation of the skull as certain parts were
used more.
For instance, people with outgoing personalities
must have two small bumps on their forehead.
To bury this theory for the final time, in
2018 scientists from the University of Oxford’s
Department of Clinical Neuroscience tried
to find a correlation between 6000 MRI scans
and the participant’s responses in a personality
questionnaire.
As one would expect, there was no correlation.
While phrenology itself may be pseudoscience,
the study of skull shapes, craniometry, is
incredibly important in forensic reconstruction.
From Physical Anthropology in Forensic Medicine,
detectives can guess the Gender, Age, Ethnicity,
Height, Physical Build and Unique Facial Traits
all from bits of human skull remains.
The part that I’ve always found interesting
is how skull shapes differ by ethnicity to
adapt to their environment.
While this is a sensitive topic that’s been
shrouded in racist undertones for centuries,
the science is still true that there are a
range of skull shapes and sizes.
How we justify using this knowledge has changed
for the better in the last 300 years.
Facial reconstruction from the early 1900s
has revolved around sculpting soft tissue
over a hard dentofacial frame such as the
skull.
The issue is the skull shape changes a lot
by race as found by Fang Et al and other anthropological
studies.
In particular the forehead contour where a
sharp incline is seen as far more masculine
than a rounded forehead.
Former model, Godfrey Gao is a good example.
Being Mixed race with many phenotypically
Asian features, he has a sharp forehead with
a prominent brow ridge.
Notice how the forehead inclination matches
the inclination of his nose.
This is the nasofacial angle and the difference
between a handsome side profile vs a plain
one, is harmony between the nose and forehead
contours.
It’s easier to change the contour of your
nose with a rhinoplasty than to change the
shape of your forehead with brow implants.
I used Godfrey Gao deliberately because Asian
foreheads are the most neotenized and rounded.
This is great for women for making them appear
soft and cute but not so for men.
As Doug Jones hypothesizes, it’s a byproduct
of sexual selection for more youthful looking
women.
In these examples the men have very rounded
foreheads and they’re not cherry picked
either, it’s simply a part of the skull
morphology.
Men with sharper foreheads appear more dominant
by being angular which also visually makes
the hairline appear less receded, especially
at the temples.
For aesthetics, I’d argue, having a steep
rounded forehead to be the most unideal for
men.
Having a flat but steep forehead to be in
the middle and a shallow, flat one to be ideal
for masculinity.
For women it would be the opposite order as
we go from feminine to masculine dimorphic
traits.
Phrenology gets a lot of things wrong but
these depictions from over 100 years ago are
still accurate in identifying masculine vs
feminine dimorphic traits and explain why
we’re attracted to certain features.
Steep, rounded foreheads can still be attractive
given that they’re proportionate with a
youthful hairline as it’s a neotenous trait
and thus requires other youthful features.
Otherwise, inclined foreheads have the inherent
advantage of being masculine by being able
to get away with a lot more hair recession
and not look baby-faced.
Subscribe to the channel for the full breakdown
on hairstyles for men and women soon.
So that was the forehead, lets move onto the
skull shape.
Anthropologist Ashley Montagu noted that the
neurocranium shape of modern humans has thinner
skull bones, lacks brow ridges and sagittal
crests with larger, more developed brains.
These are the facial patterns of our early
neanderthal ancestors who were more focused
on survival than greater thought.
In biology we use the terms gracile meaning
slender to describe modern humans vs robust
to describe neanderthal morphology.
For instance the sagittal crest provides an
anchor for extremely strong jaw muscles to
develop.
As brain sizes increased, this ridge decreased.
Also, notice that this skull is very dolichocephalic,
meaning that it is longer than it is wide
from the front.
There is a bias towards shorter, wider skulls
for aesthetics with narrow skulls being less
resemblant of the modern human skull..
In anthropometry we use a cephalic index which
is simply a ratio of width over length.
These are the classifications for skull shape
provided by Saller Et al 1957 from very long
and narrow to very short and wide.
Now you may be wondering why there’s only
data provided for 2 races and 1 ethnic group
which itself is very vague.
This particular dataset comes from Canadian
Surgeon Leslie Farkas who pioneered the field
of anthropometry going around and measuring
the bodies from head to toe of people from
different races.
His system of measurement in Anthropometry
of the Head and Face in Medicine is the basis
of nearly every anthropometric measurement
you’ll see on this channel or a modern plastic
surgeon using.
Unfortunately Farkas died before getting around
to documenting every ethnic group but his
work was carried on by scientists in their
respective countries.
Moving on, let’s consider the contour of
the skull.
The way your occipital bone is shaped is important
for making your skull less dolichocephalic.
Neanderthal skulls had a long occipital bone
which is unaesthetic nowadays as it’s a
‘robust’ feature designed for survival
that doesn’t reflect the refined fragileness
of the modern human.
As you can imagine, a long ovoid shape is
stronger across its length for face first
impacts than a spherical shape.
The occipital bone can be reduced by essentially
shaving down the skull to a more normal mesocephalic
shape but that depends on the thickness of
the neurocranium.
Likewise any uneven depressions in the skull
are just as detrimental for aesthetics but
can be fixed with implants.
We can’t discuss the contour of the skull
without touching on the popular Angel vs Witch
or the Warrior vs Wimp skullconcept.
What people in the past have referred to as
a witch skull, horrible I know, is actually
a result of poor dentofacial development rather
than just the shape of the neurocranium itself.
In this free body diagram by F.B.
Naini the skull is drawn as one solid block
and granted that there are sutures in places
that allow some movement between the cranium
fragments, your brain isn’t doing jumping
jacks inside to push your skull to take on
an undesirable shape.
However, during maturity, parts of the cranium
can be molded with lots of external force
while they're still soft, for instance in
Peruvian Head Binding.
In some cases the occipital may flatten itself
naturally due to your sleeping positions as
an infant but having proper facial growth
is much more important and noticeable for
aesthetics than worrying about the shape of
your skull.
Unlike your neurocranium the jaw saddle and
it’s components can move much more independently
of one another as you chew and grow and are
subject to a lot of different force vectors
in different directions.
As these units are stacked on top of each
other, they’re dependent on each other’s
location in determining the final face.
The so-called witch or wimp appearance comes
from a lack of forward dentofacial growth
and not just the shape of your skull.
So to summarise, having a dolichocephalic
skull shape that's long and oval shaped is
a remnant of our hunter gatherer ancestors.
Modern humans have evolved to spherical and
brachycephalic skulls which are more gracile
and prioritize brain size at the expense of
protection.
Having physical features that resemble a neanderthal
neurocranium is unaesthetic as it’s not
koinophillic (resembling the average) for
the modern human.
This can include an overly prominent brow-ridge,
s agittal crest or long occipital bone.
If you’re a woman with the supposed witch
skull, the focus should be on your dentofacial
development rather than fussing about your
skull shape.
Do you have a recessed jaw, does your nasal
contour match your forehead contour, etc.
There are plenty of women who can pull off
a wide range of skull shapes as the rest of
their face is proportionate.
If you’re a man with a long occipital bone
and short hair, you’re better off getting
the occipital bone shaved down if it bothers
you.
However, having strong dentofacial features
is much more important for aesthetics.
In this example, the man has a sharp, angular
jaw, his forehead is inclined back.
His nasal contour is straight and although
it doesn’t perfectly match his forehead
because of his strong brow ridge he’s still
handsome.
If you look at the back of his head, he has
an occipital bun, a long occipital bone and
a relatively dolichocephalic skull.
Unless you make your living as a bald model,
the shape of your skull should be low on the
list of things to worry about.

=== What Skin Tones Age The Best? | Sun Damage, Wrinkles & The Role Of Melanin ===
To some extent, almost everyone on Earth is
aware of the harmful effects of the sun in
ageing skin.
Skin ageing is divided into four main categories:
* Wrinkles or a change in texture
* Lack of firmness and skin sagging (ptosis)
* Vascular Disorders
* And Irregular Pigmentation
Over time, sun overexposure can single-handedly
contribute to all 4 of these cosmetic flaws.
Now, that’s not to say that sun exposure
isn’t good for you.
There’s a sea of studies that link moderate
sun exposure with improved mental health,
serotonin release and better attention spans.
In fact, in An and colleagues 2016 paper on
sun exposure in the workplace, they found
a significant increase in job satisfaction
and decrease in anxiety when their seating
was exposed to some form of direct sunlight
as they worked their hours but that’s not
what we’re here to discuss.
The issue isn’t visible sunlight but rather
the harmful UV-A and B rays that sneak their
way through our Earth’s ozone layer.
Before we talk about wrinkles, here’s a
quick breakdown of how Ultraviolet radiation
reacts with our skin.
95% of the ultraviolet rays that reach Earth
are UV-A. For a while, scientists have thought
that UV-A rays were not harmful because they
didn’t technically cause skin cancer, but
that’s like saying guns aren’t harmful
because they didn’t technically kill anyone.
Nowadays we’re more aware that UV-A is immunosuppressive
and can penetrate deeper into the skin than
UV-B to create intermediate compounds such
as oxygen radicals which themselves are very
reactive and disrupts DNA, thus, indirect
DNA damage.
UV-B is the higher energy cousin of UV-A which
goes directly to the DNA and messes up replication
leading to mutations.
Most importantly, both types of rays damage
collagen fibers responsible for skin elasticity
and reduces Vitamin A for skin regeneration.
Just look at what sun damage does to UV-protected
plastics.
Do you really think your skin will fare better?
Scientists have been trying to quantify photoinduced
skin ageing (sun damage) for years now.
How much damage does x amount of exposure
per day cause?
One way of quantifying skin damage is with
the Glogau scale, developed by Dr Richard
Glogau.
With the skin ageing quite linearly for most
people, certain regions are more prone to
wrinkles than others.
For instance, natural indentations that help
facial muscles move freely, deepen with collagen
loss first.
Then regions that don’t see as much movement
or stress start to wrinkle as fat compartments
sag, dentofacial bone remodels itself and
skin becomes lax.
In Flament Et al’s 2013 paper, they use
their own method of grading sun damage from
0 to 8.
For the study, they recruited 298 Caucasian
women and had a dermatologist rate each face’s
sun damage status to give it a heliodermal
score with its correlation to age, i.e. how
likely a face of a certain age would be to
have this particular cosmetic flaw.
As one would expect, older faces have greater
instances of sun damage on average as it accumulates
over the years.
Here’s the interesting significant part
though.
Patients who classified themselves as sun-phobic
vs those who are sun-seeking had considerably
fewer wrinkles and skin discolourations.
Also, the sun-seeking group appeared on average
3 years older than their actual age with an
outlier at >70, because no one seems to be
able to guess ages correctly after that magical
point.
It’s worth noting that both sun-seeking
and sun-phobic groups showed similar levels
of skin sag, which is predominantly determined
by gravity, fat compartments, musculature
and the underlying ligaments, rather than
the sun’s rays, so this study does appear
quite valid.
Although this study was conducted on fair-skinned
participants, it doesn’t imply that darker-skinned
people get a free ticket to frolic in the
sun.
In 2001 Chung Et al took a look at the ageing
Korean population and 19.2% of Koreans with
daily solar exposure of 1-2 hours had wrinkles
vs 64.6% of those with more than 5h/day.
This trend was similar for both genders but
women had a greater chance of developing wrinkles
than men with a sharp spike after 50 years
of age.
Melanin is a naturally occurring UV-absorbing
agent that blocks direct ultraviolet light
from reaching the DNA of epidermal cells.
I previously explained how UV-A rays indirectly
cause cancer by creating oxygen radicals,
but fortunately, melanin can neutralize these
harmful free radicals by scavenging them before
they can damage DNA.
Being darker skinned is a huge evolutionary
advantage for people living in areas with
high sun exposure and it’s no surprise that
anthropologically, indigenous skin colour
is correlated with distance from the equator.
Unsurprisingly, there is also a correlation
between lighter-skinned populations and higher
prevalence of skin cancer, with the major
outlier being Australia attributed to the
huge ozone hole in the atmosphere above it.
Also, sunlight can encourage the production
of freckles which many find unique.
Freckles themselves are concentrated clusters
of melanized cells and although some people
are genetically predisposed to have them more
than others, they only erupt when the skin
has been exposed to enough UV rays.
They shouldn’t be confused with sunspots
or liver spots which resemble freckles but
form only after years of accumulated exposure
to the sun.
Also, they’re larger, more sparse and an
indicator of age, much like wrinkles, whereas
freckles are seen in the young and old alike.
Freckles can form in people of all skin colours
but are obviously more noticeable in people
of lighter tones with commercial editors going
so far as to change the contrast to make them
stand out more.
There’s very little research on how people
perceive freckles aesthetically, but modelling
seems to fetishize it as a unique skin feature
to the likes of vitiligo, albinism or alopecia
so take that as you will.
If you’ve ever wondered why black celebrities
such as , Pharrel Williams and Will Smith
look well below their age, their melanin-rich
skin is part of the reason why.
Having higher melanin, or specifically eumelanin
in darker skin better protects the skin from
harmful UV rays and thus photoinduced ageing.
Up to a point, darker skin can basically act
as a permanent sunscreen.
Infact, Kaidbey’s study showed that darker
skin tone had a UV-B protection factor of
13.4 vs white skin’s 3.4 which is almost
4 times larger.
One downside, however, is that black skin
is more prone to discolouration, dark spots
and hyperpigmentation with the more adverse
potential of keloid scarring.
Interestingly enough, mixed-race skin seems
to fare somewhat better in comparison to caucasian
skin tones which were rated as the worst for
ageing.
Black, asian and caucasian skins react to
the sun in very different ways.
For starters, black and asian skins don’t
even produce the same type of melanin with
black skin producing eumelanin and asians
producing pheomelanin giving them subtly different
skin tones.
In a 1990 study by Goh on Singaporean Chinese,
Indonesians and Malaysians, the most common
sign of sun-damage was skin hyperpigmentation
where the skin takes on an uneven tone and
sunspots begin to appear.
Singaporean participants developed wrinkles
more gradually and even then they were quite
fine and unnoticeable.
White skin on the other hand had both more
noticeable dyspigmentation and severe wrinkles.
We’ve already spoken about how excess sun
exposure ages white skin in a previous study,
but to drive the point home, a separate study
from Arizona USA found women getting more
than 12 hours per week of sun exposure appeared
5 years older on average by objective ratings
than those with less than 2 hours per week
of sun exposure.
Darker skinned people, on the other hand,
had a significantly lower incidence of all
the adverse effects seen in their fairer skinned
counterparts..
Although darker-skinned people have an overall
delayed onset of wrinkles, they can also eventually
develop wrinkles in the same manner as any
other skin type.
The most common features of sun damage in
black skin were fine wrinkles, changes in
skin texture and hyperpigmentation which in
excess can create an uneven, darkened skin
tone.
Black skin loses relatively less dermal volume
with age minimizing skin sagging.
A good example of this is nasolabial folds
that form with fat ptosis.
We’re working with practising medical doctors
to do a full write up on over at the QOVES
site with a focus on aesthetics.
We’re also working on a tool that can diagnose
facial flaws for clinicians and you alike
to use, but I don’t want to give away too
much just yet, follow us on Instagram and
Twitter to stay up to date.
So to summarize, this absolute barrage of
information, you shouldn't be actively avoiding
the sun as that’ll only harm your mood in
the short term, but if you look like Robert
Pattinson in Twilight Breaking Dawn, it’s
best to keep in mind just how much unprotected
sun exposure you’ve gotten for the day.
Even the best of sunscreens don’t work perfectly,
either by you misapplying it, it rubbing off
without you noticing, or it simply not being
strong enough as is the case in certain parts
of the world.
How well your skin will age does depend on
its pigmentation, with black being the best
and white caucasian tones being the worst.
Asian, black and Caucasian races have different
types of melanin that react to the sun in
different ways resulting in variable types
and severities of skin lesions forming overtime.

=== The Impact of Diet on Facial Growth and Aesthetics ===
A smile is the most basic yet a remarkably
genuine and wordless gesture that people use
on a daily basis to interact with each other.
Therefore, it is not surprising that the anatomy
of our teeth is an extremely important aesthetic
component that could make or break our appearance.
A smile with perfectly symmetric and visually
pleasing teeth is quite important as we constantly
present our teeth to others every time we
smile or laugh.
A smile also influences social signals and
self-confidence, which explains why malocclusion,
defined as misalignment of teeth and jaws,
is often a concern to modern Western society.
Studies report that only 30% have perfect
teeth occlusion, meaning that 70% or the large
majority, do not have correctly aligned teeth.
Furthermore, researchers have linked diet
as a significant contributor to malocclusion,
particularly in societies that eat highly
processed foods.
One of the first people to propose this theory
was Canadian dentist Dr Weston Price known
for documenting the tooth eruption of indigenous
and nomadic hunter gatherer societies to contrast
the link between hard, unprocessed food and
proper dentofacial growth.
During the 17th century, significant changes
were seen in food consumption mainly due to
mass productions and easy availability.
This in turn resulted in a considerable increase
in sugar consumption and finely milled flour.
These dietary alterations continued throughout
the 18th and 19th centuries, with staple foods
becoming increasingly mass-produced outside
the home and more easily purchased.
These changes in dietary consistency alter
the facial structure and can cause malocclusion.
This is because of its impact on chewing,
and subsequently on the mechanical strain
inflicted on the jaw.
Uneven force vectors throughout the dental
structure can result in asymmetry and overcrowding
which is only made worse as the face grows.
Rapid cultural shifts in modern human diets
from hunter-gatherer lifestyles to agriculturalist
lifestyles have resulted in evolutionary changes
comparatively associated with shorter mandibles
and more malocclusions than their predecessors.
A 2013 study by Sarig and colleagues found
virtually no malocclusion characteristics
in preserved ancient skulls.
To prove the link between diet and malocclusion,
Corruccini et al. conducted a matched case-control
study based on the Australian aboriginal tribes
from the Yuendumu area.
It is known that before industrialization,
nomadic tribes ate with no utensils, and their
diet was composed of rarely cooked or processed
foods.
As a result, eating required a vigorous masticatory
effort and they had nearly perfect (Class
I) occlusion.
The aim of the study was to explore the changes
in dental occlusion related to modernized
dietary habits.
The study was conducted by collecting a sample
of dental casts from two different groups
of individuals from 1951 and 1971.
The cohort was divided based on birth year,
with the older group being born before 1937
(48 individuals) and the younger group consisting
of people born in 1937 or later (48 individuals).
These two groups were matched to another group
of 48 samples from pre-contact aboriginal
crania from the South Australian Museum.
The results demonstrated that the younger
(industrialized) Yuendumu cohort had an increased
overbite and more malocclusions, as well as
greater rotation, and displacement of their
jaws.
The authors concluded that, overall, there
was a shift or change in occlusion, resulting
in malocclusion and attributed the changes
to the dietary modification that occurred
in the Yuendumu settlement during the years
of the study.
However, there were many limitations in the
study.
Although there was some increased genetic
pool during this time, most of the Yuendumu
tribe continued previous cultural trends of
marrying within the tribe.
Also, the diet shift from hunting and gathering
to industrialized foodstuffs was not clear-cut
and did not occur immediately.
Rather, it was a gradual shift, so that occlusal
changes may have been less of an abrupt change.
Another study by Corruccini and colleagues
examined two cohorts of Pima American Indians,
the older group from 1949-1957 (67 individuals)
and the younger group from 1963-1969 (274
individuals).
The diets of these two cohorts were studied
extensively at the group level.
The older cohort had a diet that consisted
of primarily home-grown beans and stone-ground
indigenous corn tortillas.
The younger cohort’s diet was different,
which focused on commercially processed beans
and pre-processed industrial cornmeal.
A stratified cross-sectional sample was selected
for each of the two cohorts.
Results demonstrated a significant increase
in overbite, malocclusions, tooth rotation
and displacement, and a decrease in arch width
in the younger cohort when compared to the
older group.
Although these findings were significant,
the author recognized certain limitations
that may have confounded the effects of the
dietary factors.
These limitations included that the younger
generation received a benefit from a post-WWII
dental clinic, and some individuals may have
still obtained and prepared foods according
to the traditional methods.
Also, it would be unfair to dismiss the genetic
component in all this, as dentists have posited
that ‘race mixture’ may actually cause
malocclusion, in that one may inherit jaw
size from one parent which may be disharmonious
with tooth size inherited from another.
Moreover, there is a possibility of a greater
selection for damaging alleles for occlusion
through the accumulation of mutations.
Secondly, there could have been sampling bias
in the older cohort since included participants
were those with nearly intact dentitions,
meaning those with missing teeth were not
selected and thus don’t accurately represent
the demographic.
Nevertheless, the authors concluded that these
changes in masticatory function due to dietary
changes was a likely factor in the increase
in malocclusion in the younger Pima Americans.
To drill the point home, a third study conducted
by Corruccini and Whitley (1981) examined
occlusal variation in a rural Kentucky community.
The study was a cross-sectional stratified
sampling of 180 rural residents in an isolated
community.
The area was selected based on relative isolation,
no dental treatment beyond emergency extractions,
and an acute change in diet 25 years before
the sampling took place.
The study consisted of bite impressions in
thin wax for occlusal relationships, dietary
information, age, and the birthplace of participants.
Occlusal characteristics were taken from the
bite impressions and were used to calculate
the treatment priority index (TPI) as a way
of ranking dental flaws by severity and importance.
This index assigns weights to five variables
that constitute occlusion (overbite/open bite,
overjet, posterior crossbite, first molar
buccal segment relation, and tooth displacement).
Dietary information was used to categorize
individuals into four categories: modern (entirely
commercially purchased), semi-modern (beef
is the basic meat, garden foods supplement
purchased foods), semi-traditional (beef and
cornmeal are commercially purchased, dried
pork and garden foods supplement purchased
foods), and traditional (dried salt-cured
pork is the basic meat, hunting is practiced,
cornmeal is stone-ground, wild and garden
foods complement the diet).
The results of the study revealed that diet
showed a stronger correlation with treatment
priority index than age.
The authors argued that occlusal changes could
not have been due primarily to genetic variations
since this study constituted a single breeding
population with little or no genetic influx.
However, the authors recognized that genetic
effects might have influenced predisposition
to traits that affected malocclusion and that
the environmental influences on the oral structures
remained present.
So with three separate studies from Australia
to the Americas, diet has been found time
and time again to correlate with dental health.
So how does this relate to your facial aesthetic?
Craniofacial specialists argue that there
are two main forces that influence facial
growth,
* Mouth breathing habitus (habits)
* Masticatory Force (bite force)
Oral breathing, or mouth breathing due to
blocked nasal passageways, asthma, allergy
or infection are well known to lengthen the
middle third of the face during growth, resulting
in characteristic mouth breather appearances
such as a plunging nasofacial angle, recessed
jaw and weak chin among other facial flaws.
However, we’ll make an entire video on mouth
breathing and its impact on aesthetics soon,
there’s so much to talk about there and
hopefully we can get a certain guest dentist
to come onto the channel.
For now, let’s focus on the second part
of the equation, masticatory force.
The three studies have shown us that the older,
less industrialized counterparts of the societies
had greater bite force, which should be obvious,
chewing harder, less prepared flesh will train
your masseters to be stronger (hypertrophy).
There are clear aesthetic benefits to proper
occlusion with straight teeth and defined,
correctly aligned jaws.
You can refer to this video we previously
did on how people treat faces with jaw prognathism,
so an underbite or overbite differently to
those with normal jaw alignment.
Interestingly enough, Corruccini and colleagues
also investigated whether dental occlusion
and diet may have been linked to facial width
to height ratio.
The infamous long-face syndrome, aka horse
face or more medically accurately, vertical
craniofacial dysplasia is a significant detractor
of facial aesthetic where vertically long
and narrow midfaces are deemed to appear much
more submissive and weaker than short wide
ones.
In their Corruccini and colleagues 1985 paper,
they looked at Northwest Punjabi youths and
west central Kentuckians as those regions
had documented and observable changes with
increasing industrialization.
To measure this, they took jaw width, facial
width and total facial height of 315 punjabi
and 78 Kentuckian youth over a period.
In a previous 1984 study they found dental
malocclusion to be higher in the urban Punjab
group vs the rural, following the trend of
every other paper we’ve seen now with tougher
diets resulting in better tooth eruption.
The rural youth had 8kg or 4 standard deviations
more bite force than their urban counterparts,
which is huge.
Also, both the Punjabi and Kentukians showed
little evidence of genetic drift to further
illustrate that this is a case of lifestyle,
rather than genetic predisposition.
From the results, the urban Punjabi group
generally had bigger everything, with the
author suggesting that they were physically
larger in size perhaps due to better nutrition
and receiving more food in general.
In the Kentucky group, the rural males had
bigger, wider faces by a notable margin.
The study found that increased masticatory
demand due to tougher diets, resulted in longer
faces with unchanging width for the Punjabi
group but the Kentucky group did respond as
theorized with wider, shorter faces which
is seen as more masculine and aesthetic for
men and somewhat for women too.
The study showed that this topic needs further
evaluation because it’s unpredictable whether
tougher diets will result in a similar facial
change for every ethnic group.
What we do know is that tougher, unprocessed
diets result in better dental alignment and
thus improves your smile and lower third aesthetic
in the broadest sense.
Finding any etiology beyond that is still
an ongoing field of research.
With all this evidence for tougher diets and
rejecting soft, processed foods, you would
think that raising infants on a steady diet
of meat and tough love would raise the next
generation of sparta’s 300, but as it turns
out, introducing children, namely infants
on too hard of a diet early on, does more
harm than good.
In one 2017 study, 18 month old infants who
ate meat such as beef and pork more regularly
had delayed premolar eruption than those who
didn’t.
In other words, their teeth took longer to
completely grow out.
This throws a caveat into the theory that
harder foods are better for tooth eruption,
only when one’s chewing ability has developed
to match.
If you’re a fully grown adult, it may be
too late for you to influence your dental
growth with diet alone, but for those maturing,
Dr Price, from the beginning of this video
wrote guidelines on similarities found in
the diets of these hunter-gatherer societies.
* All of them got their minerals and fat soluble
vitamins from unprocessed sources such as
seafood, cod-liver oil, seal oil or animal
organs.
* They all got their raw protein from meats,
seafood, nuts and dairy with each having some
type of fermented food in their diet such
as pickles of milk cultures
* They obviously, exercised vigorously in
gathering their meals with each culture observing
periods of abstinence (fasting) or periods
of systematic under-eating
* The only sweets that they did have were
natural and eaten only for special occasions
Dr Price tested this by feeding malnourished
children at an orphanage a tough, fibrous
diet of high soluble fats such as cod-liver
oil, vegetable stews with the bones and seafood
chowders with the bones and organs included,
finding a significant decrease in tooth decay.
From Why Raise Ugly Kids?’
– Dr. Hal Huggins D.D.S which is a hilariously
apt name, certain habits during infancy such
as thumb and dummy sucking can change swallowing
patterns and result in an unequal force distribution
creating a malocclusion.
Also, sleeping positions matter when the infant
skull is soft and susceptible to being physically
molded.
Young children that sleep on only one side
of the face can actually cause it to grow
flatter leading to a canine tooth malocclusion.
The American Indians recognised this early
on and have traditionally used cradle boards
to force them to sleep on their backs resulting
in children and adults with good posture and
attractive, wide faces.
All of this ties back to the mouth breathing
habitus where certain behaviours in developing
children over time can manifest itself in
objectively attractive or unattractive facial
features.
Again, it’s a big topic so it’ll be getting
its own video.
To close out this topic, pre-industrial societies
practiced non-intensive processing of food,
which led to a tough diet requiring heavy
mastication.
With the advent of intense processing, food
became much easier to masticate, and so rates
of malocclusion increased so dramatically
that it has been called an epidemiological
transition.
This trend is seen in virtually every place
where the dietary transition has occurred.
Because this transition is largely due to
technological adaptations, not every society
has undergone this change in the same way,
or at all.
From what orthodontists know about diet and
development, it has a big impact on facial
aesthetic, but not as much as mouth breathing
does.
Relying on softer foods won’t necessarily
make your face notably narrower or deformed
but it can cause your teeth, and subsequently
smile profile to be less developed.
If you would like for us to assess your smile
profile and identify common dental cosmetic
flaws, you can order a facial aesthetics report
over at QOVES.com.
A special thanks to Dr Sony Sherpa for helping
us with this video.

=== Does The Hairstyle Make For A Pretty Face? | What Makes A Face Attractive Ep. 12 ===
Hair is a component that can be easily changed
in order to alter the physical appearance
of a person.
Haircuts, hairstyles, and even hair dyes can
change the perceived age and modify an onlooker’s
perception of a person’s personality and
traits.
Men and women are both equally and obsessively
conscious about their hairstyles.
In one study, it has been shown that young
adult males prefer longer hair on women and
children seem to adore long hair and associate
positive features with it such as vitality
and cheerfulness.
Unsurprisingly, according to another research
paper, the hair on the scalp can profoundly
affect an individuals’ physical appearance,
but as I’ll dissect in this video, potential
aesthetic gains are dependent on face shape
and facial features.
This video will be about female hairstyles
and research while the next in the series
will be for males to give each topic a decent
amount of coverage.
Mesko and Bereczkei conducted an experiment
with 77 female subjects with a mean age of
21.9 and a range between 18 to 29.
Photo portraits of the subjects were taken
with the hair pulled back from the face and
fixed with clips so that the length and style
of the hair were not visible.
This image identified as the "basic" face
was used to judge the attractiveness of subjects
on a 1-6 scale by 30 young men.
Based on their judgments, 20 individual faces
were selected from the 77 females and categorized
as the 10 most attractive, and the 10 least
attractive women.
Following this, a computer program was used
to lay different hairstyles on the basic faces
of the selected 20 women.
The hairstyles used were mainly short, medium-length,
long, disheveled and an unkempt knot.
However, hair color was kept constant (brown),
which was the commonest hair color in Hungary.
Each of the selected 20 women were then presented
with 4 different hairstyles (basic face +
3 hairstyles) to a different group of 82 males,
who were then asked to judge the attractiveness.
The effect of hairstyles on attractiveness
was calculated by subtracting the scores of
the basic face pictures from those of the
haired ones.
For instance someone who was rated at 5/10
going to a 6/10 would associate that change
to the hairstyle independent variable alone.
Additionally, males were also asked to rate
female faces on 10 different attributes; young,
dominant, independent, feminine, honest, intelligent,
healthy, caring, emotional, and self-assured,
using a seven-point Likert scale.
In order to avoid bias based on facial attractiveness,
only women that received equal scores for
“basic face” were compared with each other.
Long and short hair were used and each trait
was rated from 1-7 and mean scores were separately
constructed for each group.
The results revealed that in general, long
and medium-length hair enhanced the subjects’
perceived facial attractiveness and this increase
was much more pronounced for women whose faces
were rated as less attractive.
It’s why someone with strong facial harmony
like Ruby Rose can pull off the short hair
and make it such a defining part of her aesthetic,
but for others cutting it all off can be a
regrettable choice.
From further analysis, it was also established
that short and long hair had significant effects
on the perception of personality attributes.
It is evident from this experiment that long
hair accentuates mature qualities such as
femininity, intelligence, dominance, and health,
while short hair enhances juvenile personality
traits such as honesty, warmth, caring, and
emotion.
Therefore, it can be concluded that long and
medium-length hairstyles have significant,
positive effects on a woman's attractiveness,
whereas other hairstyles (short, bun) will
not significantly influence the values of
physical beauty.
They won’t act as a negative alone, but
if you lack the gamine facial features needed,
it will work strongly against you.
The authors of that study believed that it
agreed with the ‘good genes’ model which
is a recurring topic whenever we talk about
facial aesthetics.
It suggests that facial traits that suggest
strong genetic resistance and health such
as symmetry and dimorphism are seen as more
attractive.
In this case, feminine dimorphism would imply
having long, healthy hair which is physiologically
costly to grow and maintain.
Much like a male peacock and its tail feathers,
it’s attractive because it’s so impractical.
Another psychological model to consider is
Cunningham’s central face theory, where
Cunningham et al found that central facial
features such as the eyes and chin are more
important than peripheral ones.
For women, this includes big eyes and a small
chin and for men, wide vertically narrow eyes
and a wide chin.
From the Bereczkei and Mesko’s hair experiment
we just covered, this agrees with the results
as the most preferred portraits had neotenous
central facial features of big eyes and mature
peripheral ones such as long hair.
However, it should be noted that hairstyle
by itself did not reverse the original evaluations
based only on facial features.
Different hairstyles did not greatly affect
the physical appearance of the attractive
subjects as attributes such as health, femininity,
and sexiness were highly rated regardless
of the hairstyle.
So it seems that their physical beauty is
primarily decided by facial features, and
hairstyle only seems to have a secondary influence.
People of different cultures around the world
have distinct differences associated with
hair and hairstyles for various reasons which
could either be genetic, cultural, or religious.
The main limitation of this study was that
it did not focus on such cultural and historical
factors.
It has been suggested that in females, expressive
facial features that facilitate nonverbal
communication such as a large smile, dilated
pupil, raised eyebrow, etc., are considered
to be more desirable as they contribute to
the attractiveness of the face and can convey
feelings of excitement, arousal, friendliness
and warmth.
Even though hair length and styles are not
expressive features, they can alter how facial
expressions are perceived.
.
To look at how different cultures respond
to hair, a study was conducted by Cunningham
and colleagues based on responses of individuals
from four different ethnic-cultural groups
to photos of women from more than 13 countries.
Hairstyle, as a variable, was expected to
show a wide spectrum of results across cultural
groups as it could be controlled and more
relatable according to the respective culture
and fashion.
According to the results, Asian, Hispanic,
and White judges were remarkably consistent
in their judgments of attractiveness and provided
similar ratings of Hispanic, Asian, and White
female faces.
Faces with juvenile features such as large
eyes and small noses along with sexually mature,
narrower female faces with smaller chins;
expressive, higher eyebrows, dilated pupils,
larger lower lips, larger smiles, and well-groomed,
full hair received higher ratings from all
groups.
.
The study also found that hair length and
width was an important factor for all of the
judges.
Both black and white judges rated these two
factors as having equal correlation to attraction,
higher than your stereotypical features such
as cheekbone prominence or eyebrow thickness.
In contrast, non-Asians placed hair length
and width at lower importance than Asians
but all still reasonably significant.
While these studies look at straight hair,
many people of colour actually have curly
or kinked hair which is harder to determine
as there’s a lack of cohesive research on
it.
Older women very commonly curl and cut their
hair shorter to increase apparent hair density
which research has proven does work.
In one study by Bernhard et al it was strongly
decided that curled hair made the wearer look
years older likely because of older women
adopting it and thus by all of the fitness
theory less attractive than straight, but
only by a small margin.
Instead all variants of the short hair, be
it wavy or straight all rated equally low.
Now there’s a very clear limitation with
this study in that it’s using blond, Caucasian
models who typically have straight hair.
The curly hair would go against the familiarity
model of attractiveness for that group as
it’s something out of the norm and thus
more unfamiliar.
In that same vain, curly hair on women of
colour is seen as more attractive and better
suited as it shows up in those ethnic groups
more commonly.
However, there is an underlying problem that
people of colour face in wearing their natural
hair.
Studies have shown that curly hair is seen
as less professional.
Hairstyles such as braids, cornrows, afros
and dreads were recently added to the NYC’s
human rights guidelines to prevent discrimination.
Granted that wearing brightly pink mohawks
to work is also unprofessional for just about
anybody, the analogy isn’t quite the same
for black people with kinky hair as hair texture
was traditionally used as a means of justifying
discrimination.
While getting a reverse mohawk like Bexy is
an act of self expression and nothing more,
Afrocentric hairstyles are the ones best suited
to the curly hair type and more of a necessity
than the former.
In a 2020 Duke University study by Rosette
and colleagues, they found that black women
wearing natural hairstyles, such as braids,
were less likely to get a call back in interviews,
were seen as less professional and received
more negative evaluations which was repeated
in different trials.
In contrast, when working in a creative based
job such as an ad agency this mattered much
less.
The authors noted that this could be part
of the reason for women of colour in general
choosing to straighten their hair.
A University thesis by Kalen Kennedy explains
this phenomena using Heilman 1983 ‘lack-of-fit
model’ where black women with afrocentric
hairstyles are seen as more dominant and this
goes against the feminine status quo of being
submissive in the workplace.
This is an oversimplification of a larger
issue, but does highlight that hair is not
only a grooming tool of facial attractiveness
but one of self-expression and social mobility.
So to summarize the content, there is a large
body of work that supports the theory that
longer hair is seen as more attractive because
it’s feminine.
People like Ruby Rose are not the exception,
if anything they support the theory proposed
as hair is just another facial feature.
Someone with strong bone structure can pull
off any look as I’ll explain in the next
episode on men’s hairstyles.
The specific way you style your hair, be it
wavy or straight, is dependent on the familiarity
model.
Whatever hairstyle and colour is more commonly
present in your ethnicity is the one that
would complement your features the best as
that’s what the cross-cultural research
shows.
Judges are better at appreciating beauty when
the participant looks like what they expect
the phenotypical face to look like.
For instance, for African women of colour,
dark curlier hair, for East and South asians
straight jet-black, for northern Scandinavians,
wavy blonde and so on.
Although not scientifically proven, I’d
guess that someone with attractive facial
harmony may actually benefit from going against
this norm in branding themselves as unique
which is exactly what Ruby Rose and Amber
Rose have done.
This is very commonly seen in modelling where
the faces look nothing like you would expect,
but for someone of average or low attractiveness
the research points to taking advantage of
these ideal hairstyle traits to their benefit
as it is effective.
If you would like to get your facial aesthetic
analyzed, you can order a report at qoves.com
and see how your hairstyle influences your
face.

=== Do Genes Determine Your Beauty? | Defining Beauty ===
The human face is 
a complex trait composed of distinct features
(i.e., eyes, nose, chin, and mouth), whose
size, shape, and composition are clearly heritable.
In fact, studies on twins have shown that
approximately 75% of the face’s composition
is genetically influenced, but that doesn’t
necessarily mean it’s inherited as mutations,
and disruptions also come into play.
Slight variations of genes can essentially
affect every aspect of the facial morphology
of a human and so, an endless possible combination
can virtually form infinite facial forms with
varied facial structures.
It has been hypothesized that human faces
are subject to more variations than the faces
of other species or even other parts of our
body.
Nevertheless, from the strong facial resemblances
that exist among members of a family, it is
evident that genetics plays a vital role in
producing attractive faces.
On the other hand, the fact that facial malformations
and syndromes can be heritably passed down
from parent to offspring provides further
proof that genetics does indeed play a critical
role in shaping the human face.
It has been identified through a study by
Tsagkrasoulis and colleagues which aspects
of our face are most and least heritable.
This study utilized high-resolution, three-dimensional
facial models of a cohort of 952 twins.
Their unique algorithm then identified thousands
of landmarks across the face and automatically
established point-wise correspondence to measure
differences.
These landmarks then enabled the researchers
to accurately define facial geometry in fine
detail with curvature measurements thus revealing
accurate heritability maps of the human face.
From these results, the researchers found
strong heritability in the mental region (chin),
philtrum (upper lip), nasal tip and nasion,
inner eye corners and maxilla (upper jaw).
Of these findings, the maxilla is one of the
most significant aspects for facial beauty
as it influences forward growth and provides
support for a multitude of facial components
where without proper development common cosmetic
flaws like scleral show, jaw recession and
paranasal hollowing become more apparent.
Also, using a multivariate analysis, the researchers
found heritability in the nasolabial folds
(smile lines) and undereye regions both of
which, again, are regions influenced by maxillary
forward growth.
Due to the advancement and application of
high-throughput genomic technologies in the
last 2 decades, there has been a dramatic
increase in gene discovery for all craniofacial
phenotypes.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) conducted
since 2005, have presented evidence that common
traits and diseases are affected by common
DNA sequence variants.
Several genome-wide association studies (GWAS)
have each identified 25 of the loci associated
with a small number of facial traits.There
is a ridiculously long list of genes and their
facial influences summarized in this table
here from Stephen Et al’s Facial Genetics:
A Brief Overview which we’ve gotten permission
to reproduce over at the QOVES website.
The most infamous example of this is the Hapsburg
jaw where a series of incestous marriages
down the European family tree over 3 centuries
led to the offspring developing a characteristically
bad mandibular prognathism or underbite.
From this image, it’s very clear to see
the how a disruption in normal jaw alignment,
especially at the maxilla leads to distinctly
droopy, rounded eyes, a heavily plunging nose
and a pointed chin, all of which fall in the
mentioned heritable regions from the previous
study.
In reality these facial deformities come about
often as a failure in only a small handful
of genes for instance in the case of children
with cleft palate.
By comparing the children with this deformity
to their unaffected relatives, Millet Et al
2014 found that the affected face had reduced
facial convexity (SNAI1), increased chin protrusion
(SNAI1, IRF6, MSX1), increased lower facial
height (SNAI1) and thinner, retruded lips
with larger foreheads (ABCA4-ARHGAP29, MAFB).
All of these genes are relevant for normal
facial growth in telling the cells to replicate
by how much and for how long and these shared
genetic pathways can get mixed up even when
it’s not inherited.
In contrast, there are also features that
aren’t influenced by your inherited genes
and instead by the surrounding environment.
There’s an ongoing theory supported by a
body of evidence that human noses are adapted
to their environment by race and ethnicity.
We’re actually working on a full video for
the topic and if you’re enjoying the content
so far, there’s no reason to not subscribe
now to catch that video too.
In short, ethnicities in colder climates have
smaller, sharper noses while those in hotter
ones have wider, flatter noses in an effort
to maximise airflow when hunting.
Fetal alcohol syndrome also produces characteristic
features right from birth and there’s an
endless number of pregnancy medications such
as hydantoin that can produce abnormal features.
From Hoyme and colleagues recommendations
on fetal alcohol diagnosis, the very next
stage is to assess the patient’s face because
it’s that influential on the face.
This process involves taking head circumference
measurements which are often bigger than average,
having a smooth philtrum, thin lips and beady
eyes.
In a GWAS conducted by Fan Liu et al. facial
features were phenotyped according to landmark
data retrieved from 2-D portrait photos and
3-D magnetic resonance images (MRIs) of the
head.
Five independent genetic loci, so a small
part of an individual chromosome, were identified
from this study which was related to different
facial phenotypes.
This implied the involvement of the candidate
genes; PRDM16, PAX3, TP63, C5orf50, and COL17A,
in the determination of the human face.
Three of these candidate genes have been identified
in earlier studies in relation to craniofacial
development and disease in vertebrates.
The remaining two genes are probable new factors
in the molecular networks that guide facial
development.
These genes likely have little relevance to
you, but the recurrence of one gene, PAX3,
in facial abnormalities and unique facial
features is crucial in forensic profiling.
To date, it’s understood that PAX3 influences
the prominence of the nasal bridge which itself
is a unique facial trait for some.
Take Tibetan model Tsunaina who is regarded
for her wide nasal bridge and attractive proportions
in the industry.
Someone with a PAX3 mutation would be limited
to only a handful of people in the world with
a feature as distinct as hers making them
easy to identify.
Keating Et al 2013 performed a similar test
predicting eye colour, hair colour and ancestry
with moderate accuracy, but that’s currently
not good enough for court testimonials.
Also, checkout the QOVES facial analysis of
Tsunaina and her otherworldly features after
this.
There are a few takeaways from gene research.
Firstly, since we lack insight into the effect
of genes on facial morphogenesis, gene mapping
studies should be conducted so that developmental
and cell biologists have more information
on which genes to focus on to improve face
aesthetic and function.
That being said, heritability studies still
show that a large part of your facial attraction
is still determined by your parent’s genetics
some of which are completely out of one’s
control such as fetal alcohol syndrome by
a negligent mother.
However, it shouldn’t be taken as the cause
of one’s aesthetic misfortunes as orthodontists
have shown that facial development is still
largely dependent on upbringing with the most
relatable example being mouth breathing which
causes a host of serious facial issues.
It would seem that genetics sets the natural
bar for how attractive one’s face can be
with predetermined features and facial lengths
but lifestyle choices and orthodontic habitus
determine if that potential can even be reached.
To some extent, lifestyle can also influence
proportions as explained in the Diet and Teeth
video where tougher, traditional diets led
to more handsome jaw widths.
With the unprecedented progress in plastic
surgery, one’s genetic potential matters
less and less which goes against the predictions
Gattaca made for our dystopian future.
A special thanks to Dr Sony Sherpa for helping
with this video.

=== What Makes A Masculine Face? | Sexual Dimorphism & Attraction Research ===
If you watched our previous video on Johnny
Depp, while discussing the importance of symmetry
we referenced a study which concluded “While
average faces seem attractive, the most attractive
faces are not average.
Rather, there are specific deviations from
the average configuration that lead to increased
perceptions of facial attractiveness in the
direction of sex-typical appearances.
The basic premise of this article was that
there are certain deviations from average,
which enhance the perceived attractiveness
of an individual's face.
In specific the variances which improved facial
attractiveness were those which were biologically
perceived to be more “male” and “female”
for the respective genders.
These deviations are known as dimorphic variations.
The word Dimorphism simply means Di- two,
and morphism- variance, together they mean
the two variances in human faces; that which
separates a masculine face from a feminine
face.
Scientists hypothesize that dimorphic trait
expression in males is dependent on steroid
hormones, such as testosterone and dihydrotestosterone.
“Since these hormones are immunosuppressive,
a masculine phenotype is considered an honest
signal of immunocompetence and mate quality”.
The Immunocompetence hypothesis suggests that
male facial masculinity is a handicap signal—only
the healthiest males can afford to “spend”
testosterone on these ornaments while suffering
immune suppression under high testosterone
loads.
The handicap signal suggests that the more
costly a signal is, the more reliable the
signal is as it could not be afforded by an
individual with less of that particular trait.In
this theory, since high testosterone can suppress
the immune system, only genetically strong
individuals can have a dimorphic appearance
as it has negative implications on the immune
system; therefore it is a reliable indicator
of a strong mating partner.
Another example of this handicap theory are
peacock tails, which are eye catching but
are heavy and hinder movement.
Another approach from evolutionary psychology
is that women prefer a masculine face because
it is a reliable indicator of strength and
fertility, and that these mating patterns
originate from hunter gatherer days.
One study in specific took 73 male photographs,
and 73 female photographs.
They then manufactured a composite for both
female and male faces.
The linear difference between the male and
female averages represented a sexual dimorphism
dimension.
±50% of this difference was then applied
to the individual faces, following which their
individual texture was mapped to the changes
to retain their facial identity.
Interestingly both the masculinized and feminized
faces were chosen less than the more androgenous
initial composite.
This study shows that masculinized faces are
only preferred in male faces, and feminized
faces are preferred in females.
This is the uniqueness about dimorphic features.
Unlike symmetry and averageness, they are
gender dependent.
One may argue what about faces such as Timothee
Chalamet or any one of your tiktok pretty
boys.
While they may have more feminine features
than most, they also have strong dentofacial
structure that most people take for granted.
What is a positive feature for men might be
negative for females.
So while masculinization will have a negative
effect on the mean population (assuming a
equal ratio of men:females), it has a positive
effect on a male population.
This is why when going to a plastic surgeon
it's best that their portfolio specialises
on one gender only as there are too many dimorphic
subtleties to a face to get right.
This was proved in a similar study which separated
male and female faces and concluded: “The
significant main effect for dimorphism showed
that participants rated the masculine male/feminine
female faces as more attractive than feminine
male/masculine female faces."
Since these dimorphic features develop due
to high testosterone prenatally up until the
end of puberty, we would expect to see a direct
correlation between testosterone levels in
males, and masculine features.
A study tested this theory and found the correlation
between blood plasma levels in males, and
facial gender score.
The experiment concluded that Correlations
statistical significance (p < 0.001) were
observed between free testosterone levels
from cord blood and facial gender for males
(r = −0.52).
This study also tried to define dimorphism
and using machine learning and found “five
linear measurements:(forehead width, nasal
bridge length, nasal tip protrusion, upper
lip height and nose width) and seven geodesic
(intercanthal width, forehead width, outer
canthal width, nasal bridge length, nasal
tip protrusion, upper lip height and nose
width) distances as the most discriminating
features between the two sexes.”
A mathematical model using these ratios was
able to determine gender with 99.47% accuracy.
So to answer the question, what makes a masculine
face?
The first and most obvious feature which makes
someone look masculine is facial hair.
A study tested this and found that “Masculinity
ratings increased linearly as facial hair
increased”.
This conclusion came after letting women rate
the same face with various levels of facial
hair.
This makes sense, since facial hair is a result
of the hair follicles on the jaw being stimulated
from dihydrotestosterone (DHT); a hormone
synthesised from testosterone.
Women have the same facial hair follicles,
but since they are less sensitive to dht,
and have less testosterone on average they
don't develop facial hair.
Therefore, facial hair is not only dimorphic,
it is the most obvious difference between
men and women.
However, the correlation with attractiveness
and facial hair isn't as simple.
A beard disguises some of the lower third,
so depending on your lower third a beard can
either improve or decrease your facial aesthetic.
A robust strong lower third is attractive,
and covering up with a bread will lower your
attractiveness.
In contrast a weak underdeveloped jaw benefits
by being disguised by thick facial hair.
Compare actors Tom Hardy and Henry Cavill
with and without a beard, while both look
more masculine, Tom Hardy looks better with
a beard, while Henry Cavill looks better clean
shaven.
Another prominent dimorphic characteristic
is a pronounced brow ridge, or supraorbital
bone.
This bone is above your eye, and provides
support to make your eyes look protected.
According to a article outlining the morphology
and social dynamics of the supraorbital bone,
“In humans, the brow ridge is a sexually
dimorphic anatomical trait…..and its growth
and development have also been related to
androgen production, along with general facial
sexual dimorphism.''
Another study modeling masuline faces noted
that “deeper position of the eyes in relation
to the facial plane” were dimorphic as the
supraorbital protrusion makes the eyes deeper
set, which is masculine.The reason why is
that a prominent supraorbital bone is an adaptation
to hunting, and intrasexual competition among
men.
It’s unsurprising all 4 of these men are
professional fighters.
The article goes on to conclude that “Like
antlers, they are fixed and have been hypothesized
to signal dominance or aggression.''
The supraorbitalis usually projects 5-10mm
beyond the eyes.
The nasofrontal angle can be used to measure
the perceived protrusion of the brow ridge.
The average for males is 130 ° ± 7 °, and
for females: 134 ° ± 7 °. The lower the
angle the more masculine the face appears.
In a study comparing 10 measurements of facial
dimorphism, they noted that only 4 of the
10 definitions actually correlated with the
sex of a face.
The average measured values are here, pause
the video if you're interested.
One of these measurements was the supraorbital
angle, showing the importance of a prominent
brow ridge in facial masculinity.
These 4 measurements alone had 79% success
in determining the biological gender of a
skull.
Moving on, lets look at a paper published
about the sexual dimorphism on the nose morphology
. This study compared the noses of 90 chilean
men, and 90 chilean women to find gender specific
differences.
Nasal projection, Nasal length, and nasal
base to PNR distance were all greater in males,
meaning that men had greater nose prominence
and overall larger noses by size.
Conversely nasofrontal and naso-labial angles
were higher in females, meaning that they
were found to have more upturned, but smaller,
slender nose shapes with lower prominence
and projection.
I’ve mentioned this before, but men can
get away with a lot more nose shapes, and
even your top models such as Mariano Di Vaio
benefit from nasal imperfections such as a
slight dorsal hump.
Other examples are Adrian Broody and Adam
Driver who are both known and celebrated for
their unique nose shapes.
Women on the other hand with these aqualine
shapes tend to get them corrected as they're
such heavily masculine features as shown by
these studies.
Having too straight of a nasal contour or
even a concave one, can make men appear more
feminine and snub nosed if they don’t have
the pretty boy features to match.
Next up, are lip variations.
While they are dimorphic for women developing
under oestrogen, there was also a correlation
between 2D:4D length with upper and lower
lip protrusion seen in males.
There will be an in depth video on this, but
one of the craziest ideas in science to me
at least, is that you can predict the masculinity
and handsomeness of a man’s face by the
ratio of his finger lengths relative to one
another.
This is because the Second digit to fourth
digit ratio is a measure of androgen exposure
in the womb where studies have found that
relatively longer ring fingers indicate higher
testosterone.
The phenomenon can be explained since the
4th digit finger has a disproportionate high
number of androgen and estrogen receptors,
so depending on the balance of testosterone
and estrogen, the 4th digit growth will be
disproportionately accelerated or decreased.
In males, a low 2D:4D ratio suggests a higher
ratio of testosterone:estrogen.
Surprisingly, higher testosterone:estrogen
ratio (as measured in 2d:4d ratio), increases
upper and lower lip protrusion.
It’s why many men have perfectly cupid bow
shaped lips but are often darker in colour
than their female counterparts.
However, since lips also develop under estrogen,
the vermillion heights are equal in males
and females.
Interestingly, Hier et al. reported that females
prefer fuller lips on men to a greater degree
than men do on women.
Lastly, we will be skipping over the most
dimorphic part of a human face, the jaw because
there is already a full video on the topic.
For a quick summary however, men have thicker
chins and more robust jaws with the jaw angle
or gonial angle being anywhere from 100-130
and for females 135-120 degrees.

=== Men's Hairstyles That Make You More Attractive ===
With society's current obsession and infatuation
for soft harmonious features; seen with Tik
Tok famous models dominating the spotlight[a],
it can be argued that an attractive hairstyle
has never been a more essential piece in the
aesthetic puzzle. These fads indicate a shift
from robust, masculine faces being preferred,
to coloring, harmony, and soft features being
desired which is where hairstyle plays a very
important role. A study By Terry, Rodger confirmed
this hypothesis and concluded that hair was
the third most important component of an attractive
face after the eyes and mouth. In the past
I’ve stated that the face makes the hair
and I still stand by that, in every hair evaluation
research paper, the first step is to identify
the face shape and distinct facial features.[b]
Bolduc and Shapiro (2001) noted that hair,
in particular, is an important and distinct
aspect of appearance that plays a major role
in self-perception. Since its shape, color,
and length can be manipulated to create different
styles, it is a tool of self-expression[c].
We covered this aspect of social influence
in our first video on hairstyles.[d]
The problem is, many misconceptions around
hair and hairstyling still exist. In specific,
there is no ideal or trendy hairstyle which
is optimal for attractiveness. There is no
one size fits all unlike say for something
more universal such as jaw protrusion where
normally aligned jaws are always rated the
most attractive worldwide, and any large deviation
is considered a dentofacial defect.[e] The
best hairstyle is one that works in harmony
with your facial features, facial coloring,
and mitigates your flaws and accentuates your
positive features.
[f]
Since there is no ideal male hairstyle, we
see lots of diversity among male models that
epitomize masculine aesthetics. One analysis[g]
of Male magazines categorized and classified
the different hairstyles of models shown in
advertisements[h]. They discovered the only
significant similarity between the models'
hair was that it didn't have a major recession
and that their hair was not oily and dirty.
In regards to hair length and style, while
the moderate length was the most popular,
there existed lots of variations. This provides
further evidence that there is no universally
ideal hairstyle, rather each individual's
ideal hairstyle is different for men.[i] In
the first video research pointed at longer
length hair being seen as more feminine, youthful
and attractive for women but there were caveats
and exclusions for those with above average
facial attractiveness where the rule actually
works against them.[j]
Before we get into how to identify what styles
look better for certain face shapes and features,
we need to examine the hair individually rather
than holistically, and determine what is needed
for optimal hair aesthetics.
A study comparing the attractiveness of different
hair colors discovered that brunette hair
was chosen as the most attractive,with blonde
as the second most attractive, and red as
the least attractive.[k][l] [m]However, there
is not much deviation for preference because
each has a unique theory for being attractive.
A journal article f[n]or male and female color
preferences note that individuals are attracted
to; “1) hair colors familiar or similar
to them, such as their mum, dad, or their
own hair color, 2) rare hair colors for their
ethnicity, 3) blonde hair because it represents
youthfulness” Blonde here refers to children
having lighter hair colour which darkens naturally
with age.[o]
What’s more important is that your eyebrows
are a few shades darker than your hair color.[p]
For example, both Justin Bieber and KJ Appa
have eyebrows much darker than their hairstyle
which contributes to their attractiveness.[q]
This rule applies to pretty much everyone
of light to dark skin. Typically northern
Europeans are the most likely to have very
pale eyebrows that reduce perceptions of virility
and attractiveness, especially for men who
have dimorphically darker facial hair.
[r]
Unsurprisingly, what is much more detrimental
in overall attractiveness is hair density
and hairline positioning. This transcends
modern beauty trends and fads, even in ancient
Rome; baldness, especially for men who were
young, was frequently ridiculed.[s] The opinion
of ancient Romans on balding is best described
by a poem from Ovid, Ars Amatoria who wrote
“Ugly are hornless bulls, a field without
grass is an eyesore, So is a tree without
leaves, so is a head without hair.[t]” Men
would go as far as to paint and dye their
heads to escape the ridicule and stigma of
balding.[u]
Using the Norwood scale to define balding,
the lower your Norwood level the more ideal.
[v]A study[w] comparing various levels of
recession noted that[x] “Consistent with
the model, a decrease in the amount of cranial
hair was associated with increased perceptions
of social maturity, appeasement, and age,
and decreased perceptions of attractiveness
and aggressiveness[y].” Another study[z]
comparing generated faces with a normal hairline
and a Norwood 6 hairline,[aa] discovered that
not only was the more receded morph rated
almost half as attractive physically, but
was also socially less desirable.[ab] The
reverse effect was seen with patients who
underwent hair transplantation[ac]. Compared
to inthe pre-surgery images, the results were
as follows for a group of 7 men who underwent
a hair transplant.[ad]
It’s a harsh reality for men but there are
more solutions now than ever before. If you
are having trouble with recession, Minoxidil
and micro-needling are a great first line
of defense against hair loss. Minoxidil is
an antihypertensive agent that causes vasodilation
and increases blood flow to the hair follicles
and reduces hair loss[ae]. Microneedling works
to stimulate bloodflow with small levels of
induced skin damage. Both of these treatments
have shown clinical efficiency both as monotherapy
and in combination.[af] With that, there are
more complete treatments in development such
as antiandrogenic Breezula aka clascoterone
which is also used to treat [ag]acne but these
are set to be released in the next few years
with FDA approval.[ah] Instead of reducing
hormone levels and messing with your body’s
endocrine balance, it stops the hormones ability
to bind to hair follicles to minituarise hair
so it’s looking pretty promising.[ai] There
are also existing prescription options such
as finasteride and dutasteride which reduce
the hormone responsible for minituarising
hair and are more permanent solutions that
you take daily but those have a low but existing
risk of side effects[aj]. There are plenty
of support groups such as r/tressless on reddit
[ak]and i Youtubers such as More Plates More
Dates who break down content on hair loss
research[al] but visiting a hair specialist
dermatologist first is worth it to see if
your hair is even prone to recession as 50%
of men are.
There are some exceptions to individuals who
can pull off the bald look such as Dwayne
Johnson.[am] Generally, to look attractive
without cranial hair, a robust lower third
and dark eyebrows are essential.
Looking at the hair holistically, it needs
to bring harmony to the face. Hair is unique
since it can easily be manipulated to add
to the illusion of both width and height to
your face. It needs to be styled according
to your facial proportions.
The most vital part of your hair and what
needs to be taken into consideration is your
Facial Thirds proportions[an]. Individuals
with a high set hairline or recession causing
a disproportionately large upper third [ao]can
benefit greatly from hair covering the forehead
slightly creating the illusion of more proportionate
facial thirds. [ap]This is commonly done with
curly bangs or curtains.[aq]
This hairstyle is also recommended for phenotypes
which commonly have light eyebrows, as they
make the forehead appear larger.[ar] Alternately,
if your upper third is too small in proportion
to your facial thirds, a hairstyle where the
hair is styled upwards is ideal. This has
the opposite effect on your proportions and
makes your upper third seem balanced.[as]
Secondly, the styling of the hair is dependent
on your bizygomatic: bitemporal ratio. [at]For
males, the average Bitemporal width is around
115mm and should be approximately 80-85% of
the bizygomatic width.[au] Individuals with
a small bitemporal width should attempt to
have longer hair on the sides to create an
illusion of a larger temporal region. In contrast,
people with larger temporal widths should
keep the sides shorter to not exaggerate that
feature.
Curtain hairstyle is one such hairstyle which
is becoming increasingly popular as it can
both disguise small bitemporal width, but
also create the illusion of a larger bizygomatic
width. [av]Large bizygomatic width, or cheekbone
width, is a feminine feature influenced by
estrogen and so curtains by nature are a more
feminine hairstyle.
Another popular trend for men is long hair.
Long hair is an extremely unique style and
can make the face appear much wider. [aw]Similarly,
a Curtain hairstyle also has the benefit of
covering the forehead in the facial profile
view.[ax] For males the forehead slope should
be around 10 ° ± 4 °, compared to Female:
6 ° ± 5 °[ay]. Those with a more vertical
feminine forehead would benefit from disguising
it with the curtains hairstyl[az]e. As touched
on with our analysis of Mads Mikkelsen, men
with a greater slope can get away with much
more hair recession as its such a strongly
defining masculine feature[ba]. Rounded upper
thirds are a juvenile feature and so curtains
look good when you're young but theres a reason
why it’s a more uncommon hairstyle for older
men.
[bb]
Long hair can look attractive for males, however
for long hair to look attractive two crucial
features are required. Firstly, you must take
care of your hair and ensure it looks healthy
and groomed. A College research paper analyzing
the perception of males with long hair discovered
that the perceptions of men with well-maintained
long hair were extremely positive[bc][bd],
However, when males' hair were ungroomed the
response was strongly the opposite.[be] Secondly,
a masculine face is a requirement for long
hair, no ifs or buts about it. Long hair is
seen as a feminine trait, and works well in
contrast with a masculine face, however without
a masculine face long hair can ruin the dimorphism
of your face.[bf] It’s hard finding an accurate
example of this, but I think Youtuber Brett
Maverick is close enough, with a very masculine
face and healthy hair.[bg] In comparison,
someone with higher facial fat, softer features
and oilier hair might not fair as well[bh].
On that note of oily hair, there is a sweet
spot for how much you should be shampooing
that depends on the person. Dry, fluffy hair
after a shampoo clean strips your hair of
its natural oils and for men, means using
more product to style your hair which introduces
dirt and oil back in anyway. This can result
in an overdone look making you look like a
metrosexual Johnny Bravo rather than the natural
woke up this way style you see in modelling.[bi]
If you go to r/nopoo, the shampoo alternative
subreddit, there are plenty of people with
healthy looking hair. [bj]Personally, I’d
recommend using shampoo alternatives to keep
your hair clean and less aggressive shampoos
when needed to retain more of your natural
oils for a natural looking hairstyle. This
is important if you have medium to long length
hair as a guy as natural and styled are completely
different aesthetics that work for completely
different faces.[bk]
In general, it is recommended to keep your
hair medium length unless you have the strong
masculine features required,[bl]For most people[bm]
short hair was perceived more positively than
long hair because short hair is the safer
low risk option.[bn] Keeping a medium length
all around gives you the best of both worlds
as you can tighten the sides with strong hold
products as needed, and have more control
on the top for stying.[bo] I know just how
annoying it is when there's a few flyaway
hairs near the parting that refuse to style
because they're too short, but long enough
to be a visible problem.
In contrast to long hair, short hair was rated
more professional and was preferred by conservative
women. [bp][bq]A buzzcut is a suitable low
maintenance option, however again, a strong
masculine face is required to pull it off.

Soft feminine features don not harmonize
with this hairstyle, accentuating the roundness
of the skull further.[bs] There is a trend,
where too short and too long both require
above average facial attractiveness to pull
off, very similarly to our findings from the
first video for women. Medium to average length
works best for the large majority of men,
provided they have the hair density and hairline
to pull it off, otherwise cutting it shorter,
using hair thickening fibres such as Toppik
[bt]or even getting micropigmentation tattoos
are viable options.[bu]
In addition, ensure that the length of your
hairline is not significantly less than your
bitemporal width. If the hairline length is
too narrow your upper head is less harmonious.
[bv]Considering the rule of facial fifths,
your hairline should become straight where
the outermost fifth and adjacent facial fifth
meets. [bw]This is the difference between
a juvenile and mature hairline where matured
hairline with a little bit of temple recession
is actually attractive.[bx]
For a more feminine and recessed face, a bolder
hairstyle is required. Realistically, if your
facial features are too weak, especially at
the jaw, no hairstyle is going to provide
a significant boost to your aesthetic. Hairstyles
work as a multiplier, and 5 x 0 is still 0.
The recommendation in that case would be to
focus on correcting the large dentofacial
flaws first to get a more accurate assessment
of your face shape[by]. Those with more feminine
but strong dentofacial features fall into
the pretty-boy category and emphasize their
feminine aspects with curtains or bangs.[bz]
Men with more masculine but still strong dentofacial
features can adopt a shorter hairstyle to
enhance their masculinity, especially when
paired with a beard. This is most commonly
done with a side fade that joins up with the
beards[ca], but nothing too overdone to the
point of being overly manicured.[cb]
A good fade should end at the temples and
not go all the way up to the parting which
A) makes your head look more rounded and soft
and B) makes your appearance asymmetric. [cc]Cristiano
Ronaldo got the high part line sometime in
the mid 2000’s and some men adopted the
look as a trendy hairstyle regardless of their
face shape or aesthetic[cd]. Unless you have
the same male model bone structure as him
there's a very limited subset of people that
this would work on for a grown man.[ce] Instead,
ending at the temples symmetrically is much
more timeless, socially accepted and mature.
For people with larger ears, having short
sides can also be an aesthetic disadvantage
which is something to consider.[cf] Most respectable,
matured faces in modelling and pop culture
never go past the temples. For instance, Stephen
James has a low fade with plenty of hair covering
the par[cg]t, Zayn Malik with a medium fade
ending well below the parting, [ch]medium
fade with hair covering the parting[ci]. Point
being, for whatever length of hair, it’s
generally not a good idea to cut upto the
natural hair parting and then getting a line
through it is a great way to look like a grown
child who makes bad decisions.[cj]
At the end of the day, its your hair and you
can style it however you like, but in the
inte rests of educating the 30% of men who
watch this channel these are the factors that
matter for purely aesthetics[ck]. If you would
like for your face to be analysed and to get
in depth recommendations, you can order a
facial analysis report written by our resident
doctors over at the QOVES website.
[a]1
[b]0.1, 0.2
[c]Bolduc, C. and J. Shapiro. 2001. ‘‘Hair
Care Products: Waving, Straightening, Conditioning,
and
Coloring.’’ Clinics in Dermatology 19:431–36.
[d]1.1
[e]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PTVWw1F3R9E
10:59 onwards
[f]dot points
[g]Kolbe, R. H., & Albanese, P. J. (1996).
Man to Man: A Content Analysis of Sole-Male
Images in Male-Audience Magazines. Journal
of Advertising, 25(4), 1–20. doi:10.1080/00913367.1996.10673509
[h]2.1
[i]2, highlight:
'no apparent hair loss'
"receding hairline"
"Moderate (off the ear)" rows
[j]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uqCN7twFA7A
10:38 -10:48
[k]The role of hair color in the perception
of attractiveness
Pamela R. Hinney
West Virginia State College
[l]in bullet points
[m]b1 next to the text
[n]Male and female hair color preferences
Jen Wortham, Abraham Miller and Daniela Delvescovo
Florida Scientist
Vol. 81, No. 1 (Winter, 2018), pp. 33-54 (22
pages)
Published By: Florida Academy of Sciences,
Inc.
https://www.jstor.org/stable/26477962
[o]3.1
[p]Cara Delavigne
[q]3 and 4
[r]4.1
[s]5
[t]6 and text next to it
[u]6.1
[v]7
[w]The evolutionary significance and social
perception of male pattern baldness and facial
hair
Frank Muscarella Michael R.Cunningham
https://doi.org/10.1016/0162-3095(95)00130-1
[x]7.1
[y]8
[z]Exp Psychol. 2019; 66(5): 340–354.
Published online October 11, 2019. doi: 10.1027/1618-3169/a000457
PMCID: PMC7037739
PMID: 31603047
Bald and Bad?
Experimental Evidence for a Dual-Process Account
of Baldness Stereotyping
Dirk Kranz,corresponding author1 Lena Nadarevic,2
and Edgar Erdfelder2
[aa]9
[ab]10
[ac]Perception of Hair Transplant for Androgenetic
Alopecia
Kristin L. Bater, BA, Masaru Ishii, MD, PhD,
Andrew Joseph, MD, MPH, Peiyi Su, BA, Jason
Nellis, MD, and Lisa E. Ishii, MD, MHS
[ad]a2
[ae]11.1,
Suchonwanit P, Thammarucha S, Leerunyakul
K. Minoxidil and its use in hair disorders:
a review [published correction appears in
Drug Des Devel Ther. 2020 Feb 10;14:575].
Drug Des Devel Ther. 2019;13:2777-2786. Published
2019 Aug 9. doi:10.2147/DDDT.S214907
[af]11 then 12+13
[ag]13.3
[ah]13.1
[ai]13.2
[aj]Label: Do not touch finaesteride if you're
under 21. Consult your physician.
[ak]get a pic
[al]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z8hjNlYavao
16.40 onwards
[am]15 and highlight the features which are
mentioned in the next sentence
[an]16
[ao]16
[ap]17
[aq]17.1 + 17.2 comparison
[ar]17.3
[as]19
[at]20
[au]21
[av]22 and 23
[aw]24
[ax]24.1
[ay]Facial Aesthetics
Concepts & Clinical Diagnosis
A John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Publication
Farhad B. Naini
[az]24.2
[ba]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cEZRvIz1PgM
1:45-1:50+
[bb]24.3
[bc]Bhandari. et Al. Perception of people
and society on boys with long hair.
[bd]25
[be]26
[bf]Jason momoa, + other handsome men with
long hair
[bg]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=syqaKq5QTKI
2:47+
[bh]28,29 comparison
[bi]30.1, 30.2 comparison
[bj]scroll through subreddit
[bk]31.1, 31.2
[bl]36
[bm]Length of Hair and Beardedness as Determinants
of Personality Impressions
S. Mark Pancer, James R. MeindlFirst Published
August 1, 1978 Research Article
https://doi.org/10.2466/pms.1978.46.3c.1328
[bn]37
[bo]37.1
[bp]Influence of Men's Clothing and Hairstyle
on the Evaluation of Professionalism and Preference
Seung-Hee Kang·Myoung-Hee Lee†
Dept. of Clothing & Textiles, Sungshin Women's
University
Received May 12, 2009; Revised May 31, 2009;
Accepted June 8, 2009
[bq]c1

picture
[bs]c2
[bt]38.2
[bu]38.1
[bv]39.1 ,c3 animate
[bw]c4
[bx]39.2, point to temples
[by]40.1
[bz]22, 23
[ca]40.1, 40.1.1
[cb]40.2, 40.2.1, 40.2.3
[cc]40.3
[cd]40.4 Label: It's technically an undercut
but you get the point.
[ce]40.5
[cf]40.6, point to temple hairline (if wrong
ill fix the arrow)
[cg]40.7, 40.7.1
[ch]40.8, 40.8.1
[ci]40.9, 40.9.1
[cj]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3M7vAYuA5lY
2:55 - 3:00
[ck]41

=== Why Cheekbones Matter In Modelling | What Makes A Face Attractive  Ep. 1 ===
welcome to the first episode of defining
beauty this is a new segment on the
channel that I'll be trialing where I
attempt to explore what makes a face
attractive in the most objective way
possible
but now many of you have been following
the Instagram versus reality series and
leaving comments to go more into how I
know what to retouch to make someone
look better now
beauty is a very touchy subject and
before I hear the beauty is in the eye
of the beholder
comments I want to remind you that in
the modeling industry there's a very
specific look at that they go for that
for the most part is considered
attractive worldwide this can be broken
down by the science of fizzy fizzy
physiognomy and orthodontics now with
all that preamble aside I just want to
begin by saying that I'm not picking on
anyone's looks throughout the series are
impacted in this video I'm gonna be
using my own photos and I'm looking at
facial aesthetic from a modeling
perspective and what features they look
for and what they reject I'm gonna begin
with this three photos think to yourself
which one is most attractive if you
thought a or C then you guessed
alongside with the majority of test
participants the influence of different
facial components on facial aesthetics
from the European orthodontics journal
is a great study indicating you thinking
about what makes an attractive face the
second picture B has had his eyes
digitally altered further apart
while the last photo has what we call
negative Cantho tilt these are your cam
fools and when they tilt upwards your
face takes on a droopy appearance too
much of it and you turn into a Salvador
Dali painting as people age this can
happen naturally as fat moves around
your face
stopping the skin support or you can
just be born with it it's not a
deal-breaker in facial attractiveness as
a research backs up but the third candle
tilt photo has far more variance in the
first test group and is considered less
attractive in the second test group
meaning that it's for some and not for
all positive capital like in the first
photo is considered universally
attractive and is what many people
associate as making up part of the
highly sought after hunter I look
we'll go into what makes a desirable eye
area in a future video as this is meant
to focus on cheek bugs a little modeling
shoot for a Sydney based artist last
year and involved fur and animal skulls
and explored the concept of shamans and
witch doctors for a photography
exhibition in Shanghai so in the photos
I can't share without being striked on
YouTube because just YouTube things but
I want to talk about this photo from the
test shoot it's very hard to get the
unedited shots back from the
photographer as they take offense to it
for some reason I got selected for the
spot because apparently I had the right
skin complexion and an androgynous look
after the shoot I kept wondering why he
said that after speaking to other
photographers turns out it's because of
my cheekbones here's what I mean this is
male model Adam Lee he is known for his
androgynous / feminine look which makes
him stand out in the industry
I said cheekbones are a very desirable
trait in modeling as it makes you look
more gone now him eeeh the higher and
more prominent your cheekbones the
hollow way your cheeks become and more
importantly your og curve becomes more
defined it modeling the trend of sickly
looking men and women is as strong as
ever
regardless of what body positivity would
have you believe and prominent
cheekbones helps with the appearance of
looking like a lifeless clothing hanger
in this photo I wasn't 10 percent body
fat and dehydrated before the shoot so
the editor in my OG curve more defined
to make my cheekbones stand out and fit
the ideal S shape in doing so it gives
the false appearance of my cheekbone and
sticking out more than they actually are
and my cheeks are big hollow up it's
like a B taper for your face there were
small edits like removing baby hairs off
my forehead and the darkening of
highlights to make my cheeks pop but
none of these would have as much of an
impact in my opinion as the change in
the og curve this is the symmetry
modeling what have you believe people
are born with naturally and they have
this 24/7 when in actuality it's fake
could it be achieved naturally yes with
heavy dieting and dehydration is it
healthy absolutely not
looser cheekbones are not a deal-breaker
for facial aesthetics Johnny Depp and
Cara Delevingne
have low sir but prominent cheekbones
which make them look more masculine
higher cheekbones are associated with a
more feminine pretty look like with
DiCaprio or the guy who played Merlin
and left us on a cliffhanger
season-ending back I can never forgive
you can tell if you have high cheekbones
by looking at how long your G curve is
this is very unscientific I know but
there's no set ratio the length of the
curve should be more than half the
length of the foot mid-face here's a
little test try to guess high or low in
the modeling industry there's demand for
both types but there's a reason why the
top paid models all have high cheekbones
people often incorrectly refer to this
part as the cheekbone itself when it's
correctly called a zygomatic bone what's
actually a cheekbone is a combination of
two pieces of bone called a zygoma and
the maxilla in asia zygous reduction
surgery is hugely popular especially in
South Korea this is because Asians have
more brachycephalic features compared to
Caucasians in a 2014 experiment New York
researchers found that wider more
prominent cheekbones were determined to
be more dominant in a fraction of a
second upon seeing them this is linked
to what we call the facial width to
height ratio which is a measure from
yours I goes the widest part of your
face and the eyelids to your top lip
faces with similar width and height so
wider faces are a strong indicator of
higher testosterone levels linked with
aggression assertiveness and leadership
subconsciously in men this is seen as
attractive and not so much in women as
women want longer skinnier faces like
the top models men want square faces
like their favorite GI Joe characters if
you're on the other side of the coin and
want to make her cheekbones more
prominent it's best to first try by
losing body fat before jumping to
surgery the cheekbones are the first to
be covered by fat especially if there
weren't that prominent to begin with
fillers and surgically implants that do
work but more often than not the surgeon
won't share the same vision as you
personally cheekbone modification is
unnecessary it's an asset to have but
it's not the make or break in your
facial aesthetic if you
lacking the jaw or the eyes I hope you
enjoyed this pilot episode for the
series I really enjoyed talking about
this topic so please do give me some
feedback so that I can continue I've
barely scratched the surface but next
week I'm going to look into the
importance of the eye area and how the
surrounding bone impacts your look as
always if you've enjoyed the video
please do like and subscribe it really
goes a long way and this video takes a
lot of time to research so please take a
look at the sources they're really
interesting studies and lastly some of
you have been asking for my Instagram so
here it is I'm gonna be doing more than
life type of edit and as always if you
want to DM me about anything you want to
talk about them I'm always happy to
answer places with similar width and
height a wider faces are a stronger
indicator
[Music]

=== Why You Look Different In Photos & The Mirror | The Mere-Exposure Effect ===
The saying ‘the camera adds 10 pounds’
is actually pretty true, but does that mean
that the mirror takes away 10?
Why is it that we look better in the mirror
than in photos and which is the real version
of us?
It has been observed that the looks and appearance
of a person vary depending on the modality
of visualization, as in if it’s a picture
or a mirror reflection of the person.
Often, we find ourselves to be attractive
in the mirror but not in a picture of ourselves
taken at the same time.
This doesn’t mean that there is something
wrong with our camera or our vision, in fact
the distortion of the image is associated
with the modality of the image.
One of the main reasons why people look better
in the mirror when compared to pictures is
due to familiarity and a phenomenon known
as the Mere Effect.
Everyone uses a mirror daily, whether it be
to brush their teeth, comb their hair, or
get ready in general.
This frequent use creates a familiarity with
the mirror image, the image that is the flipped
version of our face.
This is called the mere effect and it follows
the mere exposure theory that states that
we are familiar with visualizing our face
in reverse and that version of our face is
what we consider our real look and therefore
anything different seems unfamiliar and just
not right.
This is why people who don’t take pictures
often get uncomfortable with having their
pictures taken as it is not what they are
used to but overtime and with enough exposure,
your photos might actually become your preferred
mode of seeing yourself..
This is also the reason why people may consider
themselves the least photogenic or the least
pretty in group photos.
They are so used to and familiar with their
own appearance and not that of others in the
group, hence only seeing a distorted image
of themselves due to the lack of the mere
effect.
Looking at one’s own reflection in the mirror
is a real-time action, meaning that if you
do not like something in the reflection, you
can change your angles or pose to make it
look more attractive.
There is immediate control with mirror reflections,
something that a picture lacks.
Moreover, when looking in the mirror, people
tend to not focus on every single detail of
the face but rather just on a single focus
point like the nose or the eyes.
However, a picture is a 2-D version of one’s
looks that can be distorted by a bad pose
or poor posture, or even the lighting.
It’s only seen after the image is taken
and one cannot tweak their appearance to fix
the image produced.
Also, after a picture is taken, most people
observe and focus on every single detail of
the face, everything that wouldn’t be focused
on in a mirror image.
Since the picture of their face is already
distorted and the opposite of what people
are used to, focusing on every detail gives
rise to more flaws than actually present.
This results in people doubting their looks
and considering themselves to be less attractive
or even ugly.
But that is just the result of a distorted
2-D image, playing tricks on our minds.
The lighting of the picture or the mirror
image is also very important.
While the human brain automatically rectifies
and fixes the lighting of a mirror image,
a camera is not that well equipped to do so.
The camera doesn’t correct any lighting
and takes the picture as is.
If you ever want to see your true potential
then try getting photos taken by a professional
photographer.
As photos are an art medium in itself, lighting
allows for stylistic creativities that the
mirror necessarily doesn’t.
For instance under the correct lighting you
capture a split second that makes your cheekbones
pop and appear to have hollow cheeks whereas
in your day to day they’re not as visible.
Being photogenic isn’t something you're
born with, but rather understanding how to
work your best angles, poses and lighting
because photography is a form of art and that
takes skill.
You’ll notice that none of his poses include
standing dead on at the camera with a cheesy
smile as most people do and there’s a very
specific reason for that.
Most people think that they’re not photogenic,
but in reality they have limited experience
in front of a camera.
Lighting when used incorrectly adds several
years to the face, 7 apparently from one study.
Harsh undiffused lighting accentuates the
sharp contours of the face, which is great
if youre a lean Greek god, but not so much
if youre the average person.
Camera flashes also illuminate the skin better
than our eyes can see but only for a fraction
of a second which makes even the most perfect
of skin seem rough.
This produces an unrealistic, stylized representation
of a face, that is unlike how we would naturally
see them in person.
When we look in the mirror, its typically
with diffused natural lighting, perhaps from
the bathroom window which is much more natural
and easier on the face.
Another important factor for people disliking
camera pictures or preferring mirror images
is human psychology.
Most people find themselves to be more attractive
than they actually are.
When presented with negative information,
we’re critical about it and ultimately reject
it.
When presented with flattering compliments
we accept it readily.
That’s not just you, that’s everyone and
we do so to preserve our sense of reality
by making it what we want it to be as an act
of self-preservation.
In a 2008 study, researchers took pictures
of subjects, photoshopped the said pictures
to make the subjects look more attractive,
and mixed all of the pictures together with
pictures of strangers.
They then asked the subjects to pick their
own pictures from the lineup.
My only issue with this methodology is defining
what attractive is to the researchers.
In this case they used faces with strong colour
contrast, e.g. red lips and dark eyebrows
with very minimal asymmetry.
The asymmetry part is important because that’s
what really bothers us about mirror and photo
images.
If your face was perfectly symmetrical, it
wouldn’t make a difference how the picture
is flipped.
From the results almost all of the subjects
picked the attractive photoshopped versions
of their own pictures, supporting the hypothesis
that people do find themselves more attractive
than they actually are.
Now to note from this finding, people aren’t
suddenly seeing themselves as Brad Pitt when
they’re not.
Instead minor asymmetries and flaws are hidden
from the mental perceptions of ourselves.
Lastly, not liking the picture image of one’s
own self may have nothing to do with any of
the personal or psychological factors discussed
before but instead, it can be due to the technical
aspect of taking a picture.
Using the wrong type of lens or a camera that
produces a low-quality image can result in
an extremely distorted image, which along
with the mere effect can make the end result
extremely unattractive to the person.
Moreover, the distance of the camera from
the person’s face is an important factor
for the way a picture turns out.
If the picture is taken with the camera extremely
close to the face or the camera focused on
a single part of the face, it can result in
a distorted, and unattractive picture.
When you factor in focal length your face
can distort laterally as the camera tries
to best perceive your correct facial depth.
Taking a photo is a lot more complicated than
we give it credit for and our eyes really
only have one setting so the range of camera
options gives rise to seeing ourselves in
unfamiliar ways.
In the end, our pictures are what we actually
look like, not what we see in the mirror.
But that doesn’t mean we are ugly, in fact,
a study found that people actually prefer
the version of others that they see, not the
one we see ourselves, meaning that people
prefer our camera image version and not the
mirror reflection we see.
Let me reiterate that for you because its
important; if you believe you look attractive
in the mirror, then it is very likely that
others believe you are attractive in their
perception of you too, despite not being photogenic.
Thinking you're attractive and actually being
physically attractive are obviously two different
things and you have to be true to yourself
here, but the way you like the mirror version
of you is the way others like the photo version
of you.
If you are ‘photogenic,’ or have received
compliments for how your photos turn out,
then chances are you’re above average physically
attractive, despite how you feel when looking
at your own photos.
If you are not however, there's at least 6
different reasons outlined in this video as
to why, which doesn’t necessarily have to
do with your looks.
It will always be harder to look good for
the camera vs in the mirror, and its why modelling
school is a thing, but much like all skills
it can be worked on..
On that topic, we’re doing free photoshop
morphs for our followers over at our Instagram
QOVES Studio to teach our viewers about the
importance of different facial contours.
If you enjoy facial aesthetics based research,
subscribe to the channel.

=== Is There A Perfect Eyebrow Shape? | What Makes A Face Attractive ===
Beautifully formed eyebrows are the hallmark
of a youthful and glowing face.
Apart from playing an important role in facial
aesthetics, eyebrows are also important for
displaying emotional and non-verbal cues.
The role of eyebrows in nonverbal communication
has been demonstrated in one such experimental
study that was conducted with the objective
of understanding facial cues and how eyebrows
can be used to express these cues.
In this study, the researchers found that
proficient lip readers assess the whole face,
especially the lips and the brows to understand
every aspect of the conversation.
While we have always known that eyebrows are
important to non-verbal communication, it’s
only recently that we’ve realised just how
important they are to aesthetics in framing
the face as well.
Eyebrows are a distinguishing feature of the
face unique from one person to another as
proven by research conducted at MIT.
The study has shown that eyebrows are as important
as the eyes for facial recognition.
Absence of the eyebrows disrupted facial recognition
software from recognizing faces and significantly
impaired performance.
To much surprise, the study also found that
when eyebrows were absent, there was a more
significant impairment in the performance
of facial recognition software compared to
when the eyes were absent.
In other words, these early studies are pointing
at the brows being more important than the
eyes on the face
Maintaining the shape of the eyebrows can
be a tedious task as they require constant
attention.
The brow itself is controlled by the frontalis
muscles which sags downwards with age.
This is why high brows are a youthful feature
as the ptosis (sag) of these muscles is very
distinctly noticeable later on and It’s
also why brow lifts are a quick fix to rewind
a few years through plastic surgery.
The forehead and brow muscles work together
as one complex, where excessive movement of
the brows are linked with forehead wrinkles,
glabellar wrinkles or frown lines and brow
sag.
Keeping up with the trends of changing eyebrow
fashion is not as easy a task.
In our video on historical beauty standards
here, we covered how a blurred monobrow was
the standard but nowadays its not about the
size of the eyebrows but rather how they’re
positioned.
A 2016 study from the journal of craniofacial
surgery looked at this evolution of eyebrow
shapes based on pictures published in British
Vogue between 1916 and 2015.
The study found that the only thing that didn’t
change overtime was the relative width of
the eyebrow while every other feature, especially
the arch type has changed significantly.
In it, they defined 5 brow arches from the
Westmore to the Hwang named after their respective
plastic surgeons who preferred that style.
The 6th and last style, British Vogue, was
the style most commonly seen in its namesake
magazine and it’s characterized by exaggeratedly
long brow lengths well beyond any proportion
tests we would commonly use.
The most common guidelines we at QOVES use
for our facial reports is the westmore standard
defined in detail in Yalcinkaya et al’s
paper as one of the more preferred shapes
universally which itself is based on further
aesthetic research from Gunter 1997 on what
makes an attractive eye from which he gave
his own set of 8 guidelines.
We’ve covered most of this on our video
on eye aesthetics but the most important are
numbers 1, 2 and 7 and so we won’t be covering
them again here.
Before we go back to Eyebrows, let’s talk
about the sponsor of today’s video, Skillshare
for a second.
We get emails all the time from how we edit
our audio to creating our graphics and it’s
all mostly done in Adobe After Effects and
Audacity, nothing fancy.
The softwares themselves however, especially
after effects can have a steep learning curve
and so I find skillshare to be incredibly
valuable in teaching you not only the basics,
like most E-learning platforms, but going
into incredibly beneficial niches that will
actually make you money.
For instance, the explainer video series by
Lucas Ridley shows you step by step how to
recreate the exact explainer video format
channels like Brightside use to rake in millions
of dollars a year.
Or if you’re a fan of our Instagram Vs Reality
series, Fashion Editorial Retouching by Andrea
Baioni is what I’ve been watching during
my breaks as it covers the importance of pose
and shape in photography, which is exactly
what we discussed in our 10th episode on the
Kardashian effect and their choice of camera
angles.
I’ve used a range of online learning platforms
and I have to give credit to Skillshare for
having the most depth in their technical videos
that help more advanced users learn new things.
Their videos are adfree and seamless, the
user experience is straightforward and their
range of classes is diverse without sacrificing
on depth.
At less than $10 a month, it’s very affordable
for what you’re getting.
No matter what 2021 brings, you can spend
it creating something meaningful with Skillshare’s
online classes, because your time is what
you make of it.
The first 1000 people to use the link in the
description will get a free trial of Skillshare
Premium Membership so you can learn something
new and who knows, start a Youtube channel.
Previously, we discussed that the study of
British Vogue identified 6 brow types and
that we at QOVES prefer Westmore's shape as
it’s one of the most universal.
Westmore’s Brow shape proposes that:
1.
The medial end of the eyebrow (the part closer
to the center of your face) should be in line
with its respective nose wing.
2.
The arch of the eyebrow should be inbetween
the iris and lateral canthus (outer eye corner)
3.
A line drawn from the lateral end of the eyebrow
to the nose wing should pass through the lateral
canthus
There is still a lot of debate over how high
the eyebrow should be from the eye and the
brow ridge itself but Mckinney 1991 suggests
5cm for females and 6 for males at an average
height of 2.5cm from the pupil.
He also suggested a gap of 15mm or 1.5cm from
the upper eyelid crease to the base of the
eyebrow that surgeons should maintain for
a brow lift.
More contemporary research puts this value
at 1.6cm and while it may seem little the
positioning of the brow is incredibly sensitive
and most female celebrities seem to prefer
a relatively higher position while males prefer
a lower position directly on the brow ridge,
because looking happy and excited all the
time doesn't exactly strike fear into your
enemies.
Now obviously the Westmore brow shape isn’t
a one size fits all, it’s definitely more
biased towards feminine features and Cook
et al criticised the distinct outward arch
as giving it a surprised look.
Baker Et al argued that it is dependent on
the face shape and is not suited for long
or square faces.
In longer faces, a flatter brow with less
angular curvature is suitable.
Going back to the study on vogue magazine,
the researchers found considerable difference
between british vogue and korean print in
preferred brow type, especially for the Hwang
shape.
Men can get away with larger bushier eyes
that have less proportion and are rough around
the edges.
In fact, the more manucirued the brow is,
especially the arch angularity, the more metrosexual
it looks, often having the opposite effect
of decreasing facial masculinity.
However, with the clients we get for our aesthetic
reports, the problem is the exact opposite
with not enough eyebrow or more commonly,
those lacking in colour and darkness at the
edges.
Thankfully that’s easier to fix with permanent
eyebrow dyes and research has shown topical
minoxidil to be effective in increasing the
growth of caudal eyebrow hairs
So what exactly is the ideal brow shape nowadays?
Over time, the brow peak has migrated more
laterally, towards the side of the face.
This migration has resulted in the brow peak
now lying either, right over or just medial
to the edge of the eye.
Along with that, lower and flatter eyebrows
are considered more attractive, compared to
the pointed and high-rising eyebrows that
were the high point of fashion in the last
century.
Overall, a lower eyebrow with a slight lateral
peak is the ideal brow shape in the West.
In the East however, research by Jung and
colleagues found a greater emphasis on femininity,
with softly curved eyebrows with thin black
hairs as most ideal.
In other words, the east prefers to have the
eyebrows blend in with the face rather than
standing out as they do as a fashion statement.
The West, in particular the anglosphere prefers
more masculine characteristics for both men
and women
In order to keep up with the standards, many
women undergo cosmetic procedures such as
BOTOX injections or endoscopic brow lift procedures
to achieve the laterally lying brow peak.
An open brow lift is also possible but less
common, by cutting along the forehead from
ear to ear and lifting the skin higher.
While this may improve the brow position quickly
it’s at greater risk of having too dramatic
of an effect that you won’t realise until
after its healed.
One of the biggest pitfalls to be aware of,
is over lifting the brow.
For aesthetics, it gives the impression of
an unnatural, unintelligent look and especially
for men, raising it even slightly beyond the
brow ridge heavily feminizes the face.
Also, as research has shown, the arch is the
most important aspect of facial expression
and the way the tail end is shaped influences
the look of the entire brow.
For men, a tail-up horizontal is preferred
whereas for women the arched shape has the
best of both worlds, being slightly intimidating,
but not enough to invoke feelings of an RBF.
To determine the aesthetic structure and shape
of the eyebrows while also taking into account
the gender differences, a clinical trial was
performed by taking pictures of 40 subjects
in five different poses.
The aim of using photographs with different
poses was to evaluate the aesthetics of eyebrow
mobility as well as the resting eyebrow.
According to this clinical trial, women preferred
a lower eyebrow, with the starting structure
being just under the orbital rim.
They preferred an accentuated, yet low -brow
peak that is just medial to or right above
the lateral edge of the eye, whereas men preferred
a lower eyebrow with a less accentuated brow
peak, again supporting the previous findings.
There weren’t many differences between what
either of the genders preferred apart from
the height of the brow peak.
However, there was a difference in the thickness
of the brows with men generally favoring thicker
and bushier brows on themselves.
Even when women choose to have bushy eyebrows,
they are still groomed to be thinner and flatter
to fit into the sexual dimorphic features
of the brow.
For western standards, Margot Robbie is closest
to the ideal brow shape for women, being downward
tilted to not seem overly placid but with
a highly emphasised arch at the very edge
of the eyes for feminine character.
For men, I’d say that male model Mariano
Di Vaio is very close to ideal, with his brows
being very full and dark which is arguably
the most important aspect for men as the brows
are a function of eye shape and so if your
periocular region is weak and lacking brow
support, then it doesn’t matter how good
your brows are, as they’ll never be wide
enough to change your look significantly.
You can change the darkness and density to
increase facial masculinity which is why Mariano
is a good example of how dark facial hair
frames the face for men.
For women, colour is less important than the
positioning.
If you like aesthetics based research, subscribe
to the channel and check out our instagram
where we put out morphs of different faces
to illustrate our points after a video.

=== Is Your Smile Perfect? | What Makes A Face Attractive? ===
﻿Having a dazzling perfect smile can 
drastically change how people perceive you.  
It can help you appear genuine and approachable, 
thereby opening your life and career to better  
and new opportunities. Sarver and colleagues have 
shown that poor dental aesthetics are linked to a  
lack of self-confidence which manifests itself 
as an academic and occupational disadvantage.  
Their paper introduces the concepts of a social 
vs an enjoyment smile. The social smile is the  
one you given when meeting a stranger to appear 
more friendly and likeable. The enjoyment smile  
is when you are genuinely pleased and 
this matters because the enjoyment smile  
typically has a higher lip line and exposes 
more of the gums among other subtle nuances.  
The social smile is repeatable and consistent, 
it’s something we practise in the mirror and  
so aesthetic treatment and research of the 
ideal smile tends to focus on giving you  
a pretty social smile as that’s the facial 
asset you’ll be making the most use of.
 
The formula for the perfect smile mainly depends 
on the facial anatomy and structure and so we need  
to break down each aspect one by one.
* Lips
 
The lips form the main structure of the smile 
and the appearance of the lips can either make  
a smile seem genuine or make it appear forced. 
The fullness of the lip along with the shape  
and the length of the lips strongly 
influence the smile aesthetics. -
 
Recent research has explained the role of lips 
in the formation of the ideal smile. According  
to the researchers, the ideal smile should expose 
approximately 75 percent of the upper teeth. This  
depends on the body and the fullness of the 
lips. If the lips are big and full-bodied,  
exposing much of your teeth can be difficult. And 
if the lips are thin, then too much of the teeth  
can be exposed, resulting in an unpleasant smile. 
A good rule of thumb for those with thin lips,  
smile such that your lower edge of the upper teeth 
touches the upper edge of the lower lip. While  
this example has pretty decent lip vermillion, 
this would be somewhere between figures F and G. 
 
This way, overexposure of the gums is 
reduced, although it’s not really upto you,  
some people have more hypermobile 
lips that pull back further naturally  
while others have hypomobile ones that do not 
reveal enough teeth. In general, the lower set of  
teeth should not be visible, your upper lip should 
be doing all the work in an aesthetic smile.
 
The shape of the lips when smiling is also very 
important. In general, the lips should be steady  
in the middle and curve lightly at the edge. There 
should be symmetry at the edges and it shouldn’t  
take more than 125 milliseconds for the edges to 
line up when forming a smile. Those with lengthy  
smiles that curve around the edges, like Julia 
Roberts, are perceived to have a more genuine  
smile, exposing more teeth which we tend to 
associate with a more spontaneous enjoyment smile  
as explained in the beginning. However it isn’t 
the most aesthetic smile so there’s a tradeoff. If  
the smile is not lengthy and doesn’t curve around 
the edges, then it is best to refrain from showing  
teeth like with, Johnny Depp. This introduces 
another concept of buccal corridors. When the  
upper set of teeth do not utilize the full length 
of their arch, or if the arch itself is narrow,  
then these dark hollow regions form making the 
smile seem less full. Smile profiles that open  
up too much even with a very wide and well formed 
arch can also suffer from these corridors. In  
growing adolescents, Sarver et al’s paper suggests 
to widen the arch while it’s still pliable  
but this flattens out the arc of the upper set 
of teeth, giving the face a broad, almost flat  
faced smile that is much more masculinizing. 
Lombardi 1973 proposed a golden proportion  
of tooth exposure which a broader arch will 
obviously deviate from by increasing exposure,  
especially at the outer ends, but critics have 
argued that strictly following this one size fits  
all proportion limits [smile] creativity.
On the plus side, a wider arch can allow for  
more room for the teeth to erupt freely, and 
interestingly enough, a strong link has been  
found between maxillary arch formation and tooth 
eruption with traditional, tougher diets which  
we covered here.
* Teeth
 
The color of the teeth is a significant factor. 
While having clean, unstained teeth is important,  
it should match the whiteness of your sclera 
which is something that is often overlooked.  
As we’ve seen time and time again in our Instagram 
vs Reality series, teeth whitening jobs in  
Photoshop look uncanny because they do not match 
the whiteness of the eyes. Our eyes are actually a  
creamy off-white colour and so a natural teeth 
whitening job isn’t perfectly bright either.  
Kershaw and colleagues have shown that 
discolored teeth have a negative impact  
on social perceptions. The differences between 
white, ideal teeth and decayed, ruined ones  
show a significant difference in ratings of 
social competence and intellectual ability.
 
Another important factor is the shape of 
the upper-middle two teeth aka the central  
maxillary incisors. A smile may be considered 
unattractive if these two teeth are skewed,  
even if every other component is perfectly 
aligned. Apart from their structure,  
any gap between these two teeth or protrusion of 
these teeth may make them the focus of your smile.  
For instance a buck tooth smile, not a 
canine tooth smile or a premolar tooth smile.  
Although having these central two teeth dominant 
is necessary for your smile to be perfect,  
too much of it can be off-putting. In fact, the 
ideal height-to-width ratio of these should 70  
to 80 percent. In this example, the maxillary 
incisors were brought down, taking up a larger  
portion of the smile window than before, but 
not so much that it dwarfs the other teeth.
 
Something very few people might notice 
are the connections between each teeth.  
The gap between each adjacent teeth follows an 
aesthetic ratio of connector bands, tapering  
towards the incisors with increasing connection. 
Having teeth that are too circular or conical  
decreases the available area for connection, 
leading to uneven gaps appearing between adjacent  
teeth. In this case, the gaps were filled in 
with the appropriate amount of resin.
 
Lastly, the most common flaw we see in our 
aesthetic reports are the proclination of  
teeth. Maxillary teeth that procline forwards 
do not form an adequate seal with the lower or  
mandibular set of teeth. Having the teeth procline 
forwards, raises them up higher towards the lip  
line, creating a much bigger gap between the two 
sets of teeth while also obscuring more of the  
teeth themselves behind the lip, so they also 
appear smaller which is another negative. 
 
* Gum Tissue
How much of the gum or gingival tissue is visible  
during a smile determines if the smile appears 
gummy or aesthetic. So much so that researchers  
suggest a value of 3 millimeters or less of 
the upper gums should be visible when smiling.  
Moreover, the gingiva lining should be visible 
in an oval or elliptical shape when connecting  
to the upper teeth. In this example, the 
shape of the gingiva is ideal but the lip  
contour is uneven and pulls back too sharply at 
the outer ends. In contrast, the gingiva outline  
here is much more uneven and distressed.
Another important aspect of the visible gum tissue  
is the color and general condition of the gums. 
They should be pink in color and should not  
be blotchy or have black marks. In an attractive 
smile with an ideal smile curtain and lip profile,  
the gums should be mostly hidden, but diseased 
gingiva can still stain the teeth and be inflamed  
which is generally not fun. Thankfully 
a number of periodontological techniques  
can be used to correct even the most severe of 
cases so it’s not all doom and gloom.
 
* Facial Midline and Symmetry
Facial symmetry is important on just  
about anywhere on the face, but even more 
so for the smile as it’s very noticeable.  
The dental midline is one that runs through the 
central incisors, and it should align with your  
facial midline which runs down the center of your 
face. The issue isn’t necessarily the asymmetry,  
but rather what it implies, because asymmetry of 
your dental midline suggests underlying dental  
issues such as failed tooth eruption, canting or 
excessively proclined teeth. Magne and colleagues  
found that people deviate more towards a symmetric 
smile than a symmetric face, showing that smile  
aesthetic is on a league of its own, which is 
fair because this is a very broad topic.
 
To solidify all of the points we’ve covered, here 
is an example of an aesthetic smile. Her lower  
set of teeth are not visible as that is a sign 
of ageing as the lip muscles weaken. Her smile  
shows virtually no buccal corridors, with the 
smile curtain opening up perfectly in line with  
her maxillary or upper jaw arch. Her upper lip 
contour is smooth and very symmetric revealing an  
appropriate amount of the incisors, it could be a 
bit higher and still be aesthetic, but it’s within  
range nonetheless. Caucasians have some of the 
thinnest lip vermillions on average while Africans  
have some of the thickest and so the level of 
gum exposure will be slightly different going  
down the scale from largest to smallest lips. 
Going back to this example, her teeth are white,  
without looking unnatural as we see far too often 
on our Instagram vs reality series and lastly,  
gum and gingiva show is minimal. In the canines 
and premolars where you can see hints of it,  
it’s already very clear that they’re in the ideal 
elliptical shape. It’s also unsurprising that she  
has very healthy dentofacial growth elsewhere 
on her face and is an attractive individual  
because your smile aesthetic is intimately linked 
with your underlying skeletal pattern which  
influences your other facial features.
Apart from the anatomic components,  
dentists and orthodontists have found other 
equally important factors that can affect the  
perception of an ideal smile. These factors are 
divided into four groups; gingival esthetics,  
facial esthetics, macro aesthetics, and mini 
esthetics which we’ll cover as a future series,  
so now is as good a time as any to subscribe 
to the channel if you haven't already. 
 
If you would like to get your own smile assessed 
by our team of dentists and periodontists,  
you can order a facial aesthetic 
reports at the qoves website.

=== Can You Tell Who's A Serial Killer From Their Face? | Identifying Dark Triad Facial Traits ===
﻿In January this year, Netflix released a 
true crime documentary on Richard Ramirez,  
the night stalker. During the early 80s he 
committed some of the most heinous crimes  
in the state. In the interview with many of 
the surviving victims and court appearances,  
many described his face as pure evil, quoted 
as how a cat views a mouse, predatory.
 
Interestingly enough, there’s a lot of truth 
to how the victims describe his face as  
evil. As it turns out, certain human facial 
features have been linked to making a face  
appear as more menacing. These are features that 
indicate high fighting success and testosterone,  
leading to more aggressive indicators of 
facial dominance. An example would be facial  
width to height ratio where short, broad 
midfaces are deemed as more intimidating,  
aggressive compared to tall narrow ones. What 
you may not have known is that there are other  
facial traits that we can subconsciously 
link to potential psychopathic behaviour.  
The so-called Dark triad of personality 
traits can be written on the face.
 
Before we deep dive into the topic, let’s look at 
what the dark triad is. Paulhus and Williams 2002,  
described it as exhibiting Psychopathy, 
Machiavellianism and Narcissism. 
 
Psychopathy is described as emotionally cold, 
impulsive or antisocial behaviour by Hare  
1996 Machiavellianism, named after its namesake 
Niccolò Machiavelli is characterised by cynicism,  
a lack of faith in humanity and most importantly, 
a willingness to exploit others for personal gain.  
Narcissism is associated with a sense of 
entitlement or an elevated sense of self-worth.  
Each of these three traits share the same core 
tenant of callous and manipulative behaviour but  
the question for our topic remains, how much 
of this is written on the face, if any?
 
Firstly, why do these traits matter? 
If displaying dark triad behaviour was  
truly disadvantageous then a true psychopath 
would be able to mask their behaviour  
for long enough to gain one’s trust, such as Ted 
Bundy. If it was truly advantageous, then others  
would falsely mimic these behaviors to gain an 
inherent advantage. Past and present findings  
show that it’s actually a bit of both. 
One self-reported study by Jonason and colleagues  
in 2009 indicated that men who show more dark 
triad traits were better at acquiring short term  
relationships. In 2015, he elaborated on that 
with another study indicating dark triad men  
are better at acquiring resources 
which makes them attractive.  
Conversely, those resources have to come from 
somewhere, so for every winner there’s a loser.  
A basic social challenge for all of us are 
developing ways to detect manipulative behaviour  
to avoid being cheated out.
Early studies on dark triad detection  
have looked at clothing choices, facial 
expressions, and body language, in other  
words methods of self-expressiovn, however 
these studies had too much variability. What’s  
to say what a psychopath’s preferred clothes 
are? You probably wouldn’t be able to tell.  
Instead, craniofacial structure, as strange 
as that may sound, is a better indicator of  
detecting potentially harmful strangers, as that 
is one facet that cannot be easily changed.
 
Existing research has looked at 
the dominance spectrum displayed  
through facial cues. Going back to our initial 
example, a short wide midface of a UFC fighter  
is much more dominant and intimidating than the 
tall narrow one of say Benedict Cumberbatch. This  
has been linked to higher testosterone males 
by Carre Et al 2009 and Perret Et al 1998  
which is partially responsible for 
increased dark triad behaviour.
 
Holtzman 2011 tries to link the face to the 
personality and finally answer our question.  
A sample size of around 200 participants were 
given a personality quiz used to detect dark  
triad traits. From this, the bottom 10 
and top 10 for each trait and gender  
had their faces photographed and composited into 
a prototypical face to understand similarities.  
Observers were brought in, with 64% being women 
to identify which faces appear most sinister.  
The results indicate that the guesses were 
not made at random with the majority of the  
observers being in agreement with the same few 
set of faces. If we compare the least trustworthy  
composites with the greatest thrill seeking and 
impulsive ones, we start to see some similarity,  
especially with decreasing trust and increasing 
impulsivity. These faces are more masculine  
angular and short and this should come as 
no surprise given the research literature  
on the topic and even some of the videos where 
we’ve touched on it. What the results suggest,  
is that the detection of these traits is A) not 
random and B) not entirely exclusive either.  
Certain faces showed up more for all 3 traits than 
others, indicating that the detection of these  
traits comes as a package. A Machivellian face 
that sets of alarm bells would also be classified  
as a Psychopathic or Narcissistic one too.  
Holtzman’s paper tries to explain these facial  
features with one of two hypotheses. The first 
being that psychological and physical traits  
come as a package. For instance a sharp faced 
woman may inherit genes that help her build an  
angular craniofacial structure but this comes with 
dark triad traits, perhaps influenced all the way  
down to a hormonal level during development.
The second is that this sharp faced woman acquired  
these traits through social experiences, giving 
the example of women with more dominant i.e.  
angular facial features rising to leadership 
positions more readily than those with softer  
features. The personality is simply a reaction 
to their features and the way people treat  
them. Another more relevant example would be 
developing these dark traits as a response to  
overabundant attention, in this case, male 
attention and so an exploitative attitude  
towards others is simply a defence mechanism 
to keep that unwanted attention at bay. Effy  
Stonem from Skins is an example, being cold and 
manipulative due to her distrust in people.
 
This second hypothesis is very interesting. 
The dark triad and mate choice by Jonason  
and colleagues 2015 found that women high in these 
psychopathic traits preferred short term partners  
also high in them too. If the second hypothesis is 
true, then this timeless preference in bad men and  
women has a lot to do with the amount of attention 
the subject receives, the quality of their social  
interactions and to a lesser extent, their facial 
attractiveness and features. Quite frankly,  
the features that make men appear more dangerous 
are the ones that also make them more attractive.  
That’s not to say that everyone 
prefers these dark triad partners,  
but if you’re going after them then its 
likely you share some of those traits
 
Prolific criminals such as Richard Ramirez and 
Ted Bundy had diehard groupies and female fans  
who would follow them in their court 
hearings and defend their innocence,  
despite being the target group that 
these killers would actually hunt down.  
This idea of hybristophilia ties back into dark 
triad traits and partner selection because what  
better way to display psychopathy than to kill. 
Part of the attraction was due to their crimes and  
part due to their dark triad facial features. 
Men such as Jeffrey Dahmer, Bundy and Ramirez  
had incredibly well developed lower thirds 
with above average facial width and proportion  
and are not the exception. In the same way that 
we covered how political leaders and CEOs have  
above average features in this video, the 
same applies to the extremes on the other  
side of the lawless coin. American Psycho puts 
it best with their typecast of Christian Bale,  
someone who presents the handsome features of 
both the CEO or the Vice president in this case,  
but also the psychopathic killer. Both 
roles require dark triad traits by nature.

=== How To Develop Sharper Cheekbones | What Makes A Face Attractive? ===
a well-defined prominent high cheekbone
is classically a sign of beauty in
western culture
and has a significant effect on facial
aesthetics and attractiveness
as such there has been an increase in
cosmetic procedures
that involve mallory contouring to
achieve the high cheekbone look
of angelina jolie or say kim kardashian
men also benefit from high cheekbones to
give them
a leaner more androgynous look which has
grown in popularity
the midface which includes cheekbone is
one of the key areas that needs to be
analyzed in an aging phase
however the aesthetic ideal of the
midface and the cheekbones
is still quite elusive owing to a lack
of objective measurement values
what feature does an aesthetically
pleasing and balanced mid-face possess
how do plastic surgeons decide the ideal
values for mid-face reconstruction
and how can you tell apart high from low
cheekbones
in popular culture a heart-shaped
midface is a symbol of youth
and is one of the most feminine face
shapes possible with high cheekbone
prominence
and low jaw width both of which are
feminine traits
with aging the male fat pads can shift
downwards
converting a heart-shaped face to a
pear-shaped one drastically magnifying
and accentuating
or signs of aging many women who undergo
mid-face rejuvenation
do so with the goal of achieving a
heart-shaped mid-facial structure
while performing aesthetic mid-face
lifting or in voluminizing the mid face
are both widely known procedures there
are very few
widely accepted criteria that exist for
measuring the improvements
following a facial rejuvenation other
than saying
yes that looks improved while we have
made a video on cheekbones in the past
this video is going to focus more on
evaluating the different ways of
looking at cheekbones although there is
no universally agreed upon values
to quantify this many researchers have
tried to provide
ideal values for cheekbone aesthetics
for example
little etal used a measurement term the
og which is a curvilinear silhouette
previously used in
architecture but has also found to be
useful in the human face
the og is a curvilinear cone observed on
the far cheek when viewed laterally
little described a youthful og to be one
with a high yet subtle lip to cheek
interface
sloping gracefully to a convexity near
the nasal tip
with aging sculptural changes are seen
in the value of this og which is why
maloplasty can be a much more
complicated procedure
than other facial rejuvenation
techniques simple reduction or
additive procedure may not be sufficient
to achieve a youthful og
as little's paper suggests understanding
the og curve is quite important because
there are two main ways to achieve
prominent cheekbones
pseudo and true zygomatic projection
1991 described true projection as the
actual projection
of the zygoma or the cheekbone whereas
pseudo projection
simply gives the impression of a
well-formed cheekbone
by making the cheek's buckle contour
hollow so that the zygoma
or the cheekbone itself sticks out more
this is what most people
understand to be a hollow cheeked look
in the west we prefer both types of
projection to appear leaner and more
exaggerated
whereas eastern standards prefer to
reduce both for a more
childlike neotenous face but more on
eastern standards
in just a bit while most people are
aware of cheekbone implants
in other words increasing true
projection few actually evaluate the
significance that pseudo projection can
provide
where you think a large cheekbones on a
face are actually just
being facially lean which most people
are not nowadays
the easier option to look more swell and
sharp is to increase your underlying
bone structure with implants
but actually dieting to lose facial fat
to appreciate your existing bone
structure
is six months of hard work versus a two
day visit to the surgeon
one of the issues of increasing true
zygomatic projection
with implants especially is that it
disrupts facial harmony and proportions
by making the face too wide there is a
big difference in aesthetics between say
kim kardashian
with an increased cheekbone prominence
versus someone like jennifer connolly
with reduced buccal fat
kim stands at risk of looking over
projected as fat mobilizes with age
like the bogdanov brothers whereas
jennifer will age much better because
she has strong bone structure underneath
and so as she ages
her buccal fat will start to reduce if
anything it will make her cheekbones
more pronounced
another example is aubrey hepburn who
age really well for the same reason
while it's easy to go under the knife
it's better to get really lean for once
to see where you're working with
while the ladder takes more effort it is
worth it in the long run
as fillers and implants are expensive
and lead you down
a certain dare i say instagram look
if you have a naturally plump face there
are other options to increase pseudo
cheekbone projection
such as buccal fat reduction but we'll
discuss that
in our upcoming beauty podcast with a
renowned
plastic surgeon on the other hand not
everyone actually wants a high
and defined cheekbone as we've covered
many times in the past
east asian beauty standards prefer more
oval feminine face shapes
for both men and women large cheekbones
increase
facial width to appear more masculine
while cheekbone growth itself
is a feminine trait high facial width is
masculinizing
and so having a wide squarish face most
commonly seen in south and southeast
asia
goes against east asian beauty standards
it's unsurprising then that cheekbone
reduction
is one of the most common practices in
the region by reducing cheekbone width
the eyes are closer to the facial border
and thus appear larger and more feminine
another reason for reduction in the east
is that in the profile view a large part
of the mala mass
or the cheekbone body itself is
projected towards the front of the face
rather than laterally outwards this
gives it a heavily projected og curve
which would be fine for most faces
but on east asian ones with their flat
nasal bridges and
reduced nose prominence it takes up a
lot of the face
depending on whether your cheekbone
prominence is true or pseudo the
procedure will involve shaving the
zygomatic summit
down through a small incision in the
cheek nagasa
ital evaluated the role of the zygoma
summit in a maloplasty
the zygoma summon is the most prominent
part of the cheekbone
and typically mass is either removed or
added to
here depending on the need evaluation of
the mala area
is inhibited by a lack of anthropometric
or cephalometric landmarks
to quantitatively describe its complex
three-dimensional shape
but that hasn't stopped people from
trying gary lenkov ital
introduced a new parameter to describe
ideal midline aesthetics
this value was called the wisdom the
width of the interzygomatic distance of
the mid face
wisdom is a horizontal line correcting
the right and left
zygomaxillary points where the wisdom is
the most
anterior part of the mala body behind
which the zygomatic arch becomes
quite obvious this measurement along
with the distance to the eyelid
as measured to the medial canthus were
evaluated
in an idealized female patient
population with an
objective of determining an aesthetic
ideal wisdom average was found to be
108 millimeters and the average wisdom
medial canthus line was 13.1 millimeters
plus or minus 1.67
the study conclusively demonstrated that
wisdom
could be a reliable and easily
reproducible measurement
in 2d photographs ancient greek scholars
have long hypothesized that beauty is
all mathematics
however the concept of using mathematics
to quantify beauty is not a new one
one mathematical relationship has been
consistently present to describe beauty
in both living and man-made things
termed the golden ratio personally
the use of the golden ratio in
aesthetics has its fair share of
criticisms
and at times it feels as if these
ancient greek scholars were simply
falling to confirmation bias where they
would deliberately measure aspects of
the face that
came close to the ratio of 1.6 and say
hurrah this is truly divine creation the
ratio hasn't been used for years now
in the field of aesthetics as
ethnicity-specific anthropometric data
is a much more accurate way of defining
a face
i want to reiterate that at coos we do
not use the golden ratio
when assessing faces however for the
sake of this video
and on cheekbones where we only have a
few guidelines in the scientific
literature
let's continue with this thought
experiment stephen marquardt
a california-based oral and
maxillofacial surgeon
has done extensive research on facial
aesthetics and the golden ratio
in the early 2000s marquardt came up
with the idea of the golden mask
derived from the ratio according to my
quad
our objective idea and perception of
beauty is
hard wired into each of us based on how
closely
one's feature reflects these ratio
proportions
the mask is something that we loosely
use for our facial morphs over at the
koov's website
and dr maquad has made provisions for
different ethnicities
but again we don't really rely on it
because personally i do think that the
ratio is flawed
with this concept in mind two authors
swift and remington have used the golden
ratio to quantify
the ideal midface aesthetic the ideal
female cheek mound
should be ovoid in shape and not
circular it should also not be higher
than the limbus of our lower eyelid
another parameter termed the cheek axis
should not be vertical but rather should
be angled from the lateral commissure or
the
mouth corner to the base of the ear
helix
more importantly bilateral malar
prominence
cheekbone prominence on either side
should have a defined apex that is
located high on the midface
both below and lateral to the lateral
canthus
or the eye corner while being
eccentrically located within the cheek
oval
in simple terms this means that a the
cheeks should be more laterally outwards
than forwards
which is something that east asians
really did not like in their standards
and b a longer oval-shaped cheekbone
prominence is
ideal although this is a highly
feminizing feature
as men have smaller circular and sharper
cheekbone mounds which is the complete
opposite
if you're a man going for a more pretty
boy androgynous look
then increasing the area of the mound
not necessarily the size
is much more important this may mean
submarine implants like
kim kardashian who appears to have very
big cheekbones
which cover a large area and a
combination of
pseudo-projection techniques such as
reduced mucous fat to get a sharp og
curve obviously the same applies to
women who also want to increase their
femininity
in line with western standards what
we've noticed in our aesthetic reports
and in assessing hundreds of clients is
that a combination of lean
cheeks and moderate cheekbones so
pseudozygmatic projection
is better for both men and women in line
with western standards
for men the focus is more so on the lean
cheeks
because that is a masculine feature that
provides much needed contrast to the
feminine appeal of
large zygomatic projection increasing
true zygomatic projection with implants
is ill-advised in most cases as it is
highly dependent on the jaw width
increased cheekbone projection and low
jaw width can give you a feminine heart
shaped face
which may or may not be what a man
trying to increase masculinity
is after conversely a woman with a wide
square jaw
with wide cheekbones and facial width
should not be looking to increase her
cheekbone projection
to make her jaw appear smaller by
comparison for improved feminine appeal
the latter piece of advice applies more
to south asian and southeast asian faces
which are more square by nature having
lean cheeks can be good to emphasize
existing bone structure but be careful
if adding more mass to the cheeks
through implants or fillers
which is unfortunately the go-to
solution these days
if you want to get your cheekbones
assessed order a cuvs facial aesthetic
report
over at the website to get feedback on
how it affects your looks
and your options for improving it if you
enjoy our facial aesthetics and
beauty as a science content then
subscribe to the channel to
catch our upcoming podcast and future
[Music]
videos
you

=== MEASURE Your Attractiveness With These Circles  | Circle of Prominence Theory ===
over the past few decades many theories
have looked at external facial landmarks
to define beauty
there have also been theories that state
that an observer focuses on specific
parts of the faith
to judge so however all of these
theories are flawed precisely because
they concentrate on shapes and points
that don't hold much significance in the
eyes of the observer
although looking at just external
landmarks are one place to start when
analyzing beauty
there are many other methods that look
at things holistically
and then tie them all together rather
than just analyzing facial features
piece by piece one example would be
neoclassical canons of beauty
most of which would develop during the
renaissance mainly by davinci
based on early greek understandings of
aesthetics
these guidelines became the standard
during the 19th to 17th century
as artistic anatomists relied on them
heavily in their depiction of faces
while many artists still rely on
classical beauty proportions
and these ideals to quickly and
accurately produce a
repeatable face plastic surgeons have
the much more difficult job
of working with what they have often
faces from different races and
ethnicities
these ancient ideals are however
ethnocentric and do not account for the
facial differences
of other regions in fact as we'll see in
a second
they're not very good indicators for the
people that they were meant to represent
either
instead producing one type of
prototypical face
which may or may not be the most
attractive in actuality
these proportions are not a binary
system of attractive versus unattractive
being this face for example versus this
is not a 0 versus a 10 in terms of looks
rather if this was determined to be the
most attractive face
for that particular ethnic group then
the amount of deviation from this
prototypical face
will drop your attraction incrementally
but just because you're not the perfect
face
doesn't put you at a zero this concept
of
anthropometric deviation is important to
keep in mind for this video
and when talking about proportions in
general facus 1985 with colleagues
aimed to tackle eight neoclassical
canons that these renaissance artists
were particularly fond of
to revise them for a greater range of
acceptable variation
to the mainstream audience it's
understood that an attractive face has
perfect facial thirds
but as we see here zero percent of the
participants in this test paper
had these proportions instead being more
bottom heavy with a larger lower third
and forehead we see this trend with the
remaining seven neoclassical guidelines
where very few participants actually fit
the canon guidelines
it's important to understand what these
guidelines are suggesting
but not to follow them blindly some
faces can have
a larger lower third naturally or it
could be due to gender facial deformity
such as vertical skeletal dysplasia
aka horse face some faces can have a
larger upper third
because of a recessed hairline both of
these would be flaws that the average
person
or even an orthodontist in the former
example would want corrected
to restore better proportion just
because the study suggests that zero
percent of the participants
fit those neoclassical guidelines
doesn't make them
invalid which is where understanding the
data and having experience with
potential flaws is very important
that's exactly why the coos brand exists
to educate our audiences
into thinking critically in our
aesthetic reports we use the
neoclassical facial thirds as a
guideline
and then our orthodontic team or the
dental team evaluates the face for
potential dysplasia or misalignment
to understand if the deviation from
perfect facial thirds
is a natural variation such as here or
an
underlying issue that affects other
facial features too
you can download a free sample report
over at the queue's website and
see for yourself just like with
proportion
there's a similar misconception about
averageness to be truly attractive
it's not enough to be just coinophilic
in the sense that your features resemble
that of a
composite image made from many different
faces
we use this as a benchmark in analysis
because an average face is one that is
free from cosmetic or dental facial
flaws
and then assess deviations from that
first this helps bring a client's face
to a quote-unquote blank slate
by quickly identifying and correcting
their most deviant flaws
from the average prototype phase the
average phase would then be
a 7 out of 10 in attractiveness and it's
funny that when
asked to rate themselves most people say
that there are 7
even though by definition everyone
cannot be a 7.
that's because a face that is a 5 has a
lot of flaws and
research has shown that we see ourselves
more like this average face
and ignore a lot of the flaws we touched
on this in our episode on mirror
reflections
a truly attractive face that is a 9 or a
10 actually has features that are away
from the average
and this was shown in johnston and
colleagues paper where
certain non-average traits such as
increased lip fullness
and shorter chin length were deemed more
attractive on women
there is however another way to assess
faces that very few people know of
multiple studies have looked at the
concept of the circles of prominence
which could possibly explain the ideal
aesthetic values of the face
a person when asked to position a circle
within a box
would most likely place the circle in
the center of the box
the same could be true for the face the
iris nasal tip
lower lip could be thought of as a
circle while the face
can be considered as the box this
follows the idea that
beauty is limited by what our minds can
interpret
from a physiological level a person
might be attractive
in infrared light but unless you're a
vampire bat
you can't see infrared only visible
light and the way you process that
determines how you view beauty we
identify faces by
subtle gradations in light that helps us
see depth
ganglion cells in the retina are
arranged in circles
and so stimulation is greatest between
circular borders of light and dark
and more often than not we immediately
look into the eyes of a person
rather than focusing on their ears for
instance
studies on eye movement have recorded in
specific
that we focus on the eyes nose and mouth
then other landmarks
but return back to these features in the
past we've also discussed the central
face theory
where features towards the center of the
face get more attention
and thus are more sensitive for
attraction than those laterally outwards
if we combine these two ideas the circle
of prominence theory suggests that the
ideal proportion of a particular face
is determined by iris with because we
focus on the iris so much
and everything else is reduced to
peripheral vision
in this example the inner circles are
all one iris with a part
which is similar in proportion to most
standard guidelines on aesthetics
the authors state that the smaller the
facial structures are from
one iris with proportion the less
association they have with
other structures in other words less
harmony
the circle of prominence hypothesis also
theorizes that the position of the iris
can pinpoint the ideal positions
of other aspects of the phase in these
figures
young examined the ideal eyebrow height
and hypothesize
that the ideal distance would be one
iris with this theory was found to be
statistically correct in both
line drawings and morphed pictures the
group studied by young
had shifting opinions where initially
they preferred a slightly higher brow
position
at one and a half iris width and then
later shifting to
a half iris width young theorized that
the shifting opinion
could be due to the fact that the lower
brow position is more common in the
normal population
than the higher one a higher eyebrow
position of
two iris width was deemed the worst by
the study group
and this may be due to the rare number
of people with this type of eyebrow
position
and additionally unpleasant emotions
such as fear surprise or shock
are conveyed by a high brow position
in these figures young studied the nose
to test the prominence hypothesis
stating that the ideal width of the nose
bridge and tip should be one
iris width in both the line and morph
pictures
a smaller nose of half iris width was
the second most preferred size
of the one and a half iris width size
this supports a lot of other guidelines
that we've seen all over the literature
that smaller nose sizes are generally
better than their bigger counterparts
depending on the ethnic group in regards
to rhinoplasty
although the ideal size would be one
iris width if the choice was between
a half or one and a half it would be
much better
aesthetically speaking to go with the
half iris width size
the researchers also saw a similar trend
in regards to the lower lip height
where one iris width was selected by the
study group as the most ideal
in both the line and morphed pictures
this data closely resembled what young
found with the nasal bridge and tip
width
with people showing a preference for a
smaller lower lip
in contrast to a larger lower lip as the
half iris width high of the lower lip
was preferred of the one and a half
lower lip
similarly the ideal height of the upper
lip was found to be half of the iris
width
whereas the ideal distance of the ear
from the side of the face
was found to be somewhere between 0.5
and 1 iris width
one of the biggest issues in surgical
augmentation is overfilling syndrome
especially for the lips where excess use
of filler
leads to an averted disproportionate
appearance
young's paper suggests smaller lips that
do not go beyond half iris width for the
upper and
one iris width for the lower but this is
the average value for the average
phase as we know from the beginning of
this video average values help create a
blank slate face
but truly attractive faces have slight
deviations in the eyes nose and lips
coincidentally the most important parts
in the circle of prominence theory as
well
a one to three millimeter increase in
the upper lip height
beyond half iris width is actually more
beneficial without harming the
proportion of the lower lip
making the face more sensual and this
applies to both men
and women as shapely lips are an
attractive feature on
anyone according to iai atal
to round out the circle of prominence
theory pun most definitely intended
we'll briefly discuss some aesthetic
ratios young's third paper on the topic
found ratios of three iris widths for
each
physionomical segment to be most
aesthetic with a 4-3-3 ratio
coming second that has a slightly larger
mid-face
going back to farkas research on the
neoclassical proportions
that da vinci put out we see that the
333 ideal represented
by the canon guidelines but you also see
100 of the test population
having the opposite of the 433 ratio of
young study with a shorter midface and
larger jaw
granted that these are two completely
different studies of different time
periods
it's interesting to note that what one
feature that a test group has
is the opposite of what was found to be
the most attractive
by another test group in another paper
this doesn't throw a wrench into
anyone's findings
because farkas paper wasn't made to
discuss aesthetics
it simply challenges some 500 year old
proportion test
and says hey look zero percent of the
population have these ratios
should we really be using them as a gold
standard to strive for
and young's paper on the circle of
prominence theory is stating the
opposite
by saying that perfect facial thirds or
at least the bottom two thirds
are very attractive what i think is
actually going on
is that we find perfect facial thirds
attractive
exactly for this reason because zero
percent of the population has it
or in this case the test population from
farkas's paper
the one extreme outlier that does have
perfect proportion
stands out very well the circle of
prominence theory
relies on the core tendon of order and
attractive face
is just the most well-ordered or
harmonious set of features that are
distributed across a blank slate
of a face where should the eyes go how
far apart should the nose be
how high are the brows are questions any
portrait artists have asked themselves
at some point
the fact that most people place their
circles in the dead center of the box
shows our innate desire for order and
when things
aren't balanced or how we expect them to
be we feel deeply unsatisfied or even
uncomfortable
the circle of prominence theory accounts
for deviations by ethnic groups
as it's based on something that is
innately yours the size of your iris
not the size of miranda curse iris or
hugh jackman's
while neoclassical cannons can help
measure proportion
and average faces can help measure well
averageness or quinophilia
the circle of prominence theory can help
measure facial harmony
which is something that is often
misunderstood and even more often
misapplied in doing research for this
video we learnt so many new things
and spoke to so many new people and i
would love to share all of my thoughts
on the research
but producing videos is lengthy that's
why we're working on a podcast that will
be on our patreon
and i'll bring guest stars in plastic
surgeons and even discuss with some of
the coup staff
their thoughts on topics as chosen by
you they'll be opening next week with an
announcement
last but not least if you want to get
your face assessed perhaps with the
circle of prominence theory
order an aesthetics report over at
thecube's website

=== How Climate Influences Your Nose Shape | Defining Beauty ===
With over 15 million procedures being performed
in 2019 just in the United States alone, and
rhinoplastic surgery making up the majority
of this, people are having more surgeries
now than ever before.
As it turns out, climate has a huge influence
in how your nose is shaped, for example, the
sharp, upturned peaks of Scandanavian noses
compared to the flat and wide shapes of sub
Saharan African ones.
The noses of individuals are heavily shaped
by genetic influences of their ancestors',
which in turn have gone through a process
of natural selection, across generations , to
best adapt to their climate.
In the tropics, where the air is warm, evolutionary
changes have occurred over time affecting
the noses of their inhabitants, with noses
that are more flat with nostrils open and
wide acting as a favorable genetic marker.
Quite simply put, The greater width of the
nose increases the potential intake of air
needed in warmer climates, and has hence served
as an evolutionary advantage for populations
living in the tropics.
If we were to place individuals with this
open and wide nose evolutionary trait in colder
climates, the increased potential intake of
air would serve as an evolutionary disadvantage,
allowing masses of cold air to enter and irritate
the membranous lining.
A landmark research article by Zaidi et. al.
speaks to the case that adaptations to climate
have caused observed differences in nose shapes
among populations around the world.
The study included 2637 participants with
relevant genetic ancestry data, which is an
impressively culturally diverse sample size
for data collected exclusively in the United
States.
To give context to the paper, genetic scientists
have been studying and measuring Noses and
extracting meaning from their results for
an age now, with Thomson and Buxton publishing
an historic paper in 1923.
The paper demonstrated significant differences
between 242 different crania (or skulls),
by using a mathematical ‘nasal index’,
finding ethnic differences for crania composition.
For example, the skull (on the left) is an
Algonquin Indian exhibiting a narrow nose
with a nasal index of 39.4.
On the other hand, on the right is a North-west
Australian with a wide nose, has an index
of 55.4.
Close to a century later, in 2017, Zaidi et.
al. have improved the sophistication of Thomson
and Buxton’s measuring techniques to prove
variation in nose shape between West-African,
East-Asian, Northern European and Southern
Asian populations by statistically modelling
3D images of participants’ faces using the
3dMD Face system.
With the ability to model noses using imaging
systems, 5 nasal distances and 2 areas from
every nose were measured to quantitatively
compare the shapes and sizes of noses between
populations.
The distances included the ‘Nares width’,
a measurement of the distance between the
two alares of the nose as shown in the picture.
The ‘Alar base width’, similar to the
Nares width, but measuring from the base of
the nose.
The ‘Nasal height’, measured from the
top of the nose (known as the ‘Nasion’,
labelled ‘n’) to the bottom of the nose
(the ‘Subnasale’, labelled ‘sn’).
The ‘Nasal Ridge length’, measured from
the top of the nose (The nasion) to the point
of the nose (known as the ‘pronasale’,
labelled ‘prn’).
And the final distance, the ‘Nasal tip protrusion’,
measured from the point of the nose, the pronasale,
to the bottom of the nose, the subnasale.
Continuing, the areas from every nose that
were measured were the Overall area and the
nostril area, both pictured.
What follows now is the data collated for
the nose shape and size of each ethnic population.
Feel free to pause the video here to make
your own inferences from the graphs provided
here, but a summarised table will detail the
important findings from the dataset.
From the report, it can be seen that West
Africans have the largest Nares width, Alares
base width, and the smallest nasal tip protrusion.
This correlates to a wide and flat nose.
It was also recorded that Northern Europeans
have the smallest nares width and alares base
width, with the greatest nasal tip protrusion.
This actualises to a tall, point and thin
nose.
East Asians were also found to have the smallest
noses in terms of external surface area, and
the smallest nasal tip protrusion.
This results in a small and short nose.
To confirm what the data collected shows,
West African males and Females have the largest
Nares width and alares base width and Northern
European men and women have the smallest.
East Asian men and West African females have
the greatest nasal height, whilst all South
Asians have the smallest.
Now, with all the data modelling complete
and analysed, the researchers of this paper
set out to evidence that these differences
in nose shape and size between African, Asian
and European populations was due to the evolutionary
benefits unique to each of those climates.
That is, that the results of the differing
nose shapes were due to differing climates,
above and beyond the effect of Genetic drift.
Genetic drift is the phenomenon in which frequencies
of a certain characteristic change over generations
due to chance.
In the ladybug example, the chance event of
a group of bugs being swatted has resulted
in a population decrease in blue bugs.
When it comes time for these bugs to reproduce,
only a small amount will continue to hold
the blue trait.
Overtime, by chance, the overall characteristics
of the population will change.
It should be noted that Genetic drift is unlikely
in a large sample size.
To recognise which measurements of the nose
size and shape had differences that could
not be attributed to genetic drift alone,
the authors of the paper comprised a formula
and statistical procedure that assessed the
variation of the data sets.
The statistical explanation behind the formula
is complex, however, statistically significant
results from the data found through probability
values of less than 0.05 (that is, less than
a 5% chance that we are wrong in assuming
the data is meaningful) meant that there was
a difference beyond genetic drift.
In the graph pictured, Qst-Fst refers to the
formula priorly mentioned, with larger resultant
values from the formula directly corresponding
to smaller p-values (and hence more evidence
that there is an effect beyond genetic drift).
The red and orange violin shaped data plots,
representing ‘Skin pigmentation’, ‘Nares
width’, ‘Alar base width’ and ‘Nasal
tip protrusion’ are the measurements that
are found to have significant effects beyond
genetic drift, evidenced by p-values less
than 0.05, as shown from the coding scheme
on the side.
That is, the differences in these four factors
between West African, Northern European and
South and East Asian populations are caused
by differences in climates.
When we think of this logically, it makes
complete sense that Skin Pigmentation, which
has not been mentioned priorly, differs for
climates, as can be seen here.
It is interesting when we consider the parallel
between these findings and those of skin pigmentation
in populations, stressing the influence of
the climate on human physical adaptations.
We covered skin tone adaptations in our video
here, so pay that a visit but before you do,
leave a like on this video in return for a
3 second blooper reel of me messing up the
recording.
[insert z1 audio]
How does this relate to you?
How the objective differences in nose shape
and size between populations link to the aesthetics
and perceived attractiveness of individuals
is a different can of worms.
We’re of the belief that there is no perfect
nose shape but there are aggravating and mitigating
factors to attractiveness.
Unlike a jaw which can have different levels
of protrusion and misalignment that decrease
or increase their attractiveness quite linearly
and objectively, for instance a Scandanavian
can have more or less the same jaw shape as
an Indigineous Aboriginal, with the noses
being linked to climate there is an incredibly
diverse range of shapes and types to consider,
making their attraction much more subjective
than other features.
However it is important to recognise deformities
from simply different nose shapes.
Saddle noses caused by blunt force trauma,
a deviated septum which can affect breathing,
swollen lymph nodes and a prominent dorsal
hump caused by excess cartilage, weak facial
development or again trauma.
Nasal hump correction, aka the dorsal hump
because it usually occurs at the dorsum of
the nose, is the most common reason for cosmetic
rhinoplasty because it is an incredibly masculinizing
feature.
Native Americans harmonize best with this
masculine nose shape because they have very
wide and strong faces due to their tough diet
and child rearing traditions.
For instance they use cradleboards to keep
infants on their backs so that their soft
skulls form aesthetically strong and wide
and not narrow and dolichocephalic with a
large occipital bone like some type of alien.
For people of other ethnicities with more
feminine features, it doesn’t work as well
and so correcton is often desired.
To summarise, the findings of Zaidi et.
Al's paper demonstrates that nose width, projection,
and nostril size vary by geographic location,
highlighting an evolutionary adaptation of
people over time to their climate.
If living in colder climates, over time, populations
will have a greater proportion of people with
smaller and thinner noses to avoid sucking
in too much stinging cold air, protecting
the inner lining of their nose.
On the contrary, living in warmer climates
results in larger and wider noses, allowing
for more intake of air for physical activity

=== How To CORRECTLY Fix Dark Undereye Circles | Causes, Prevention and Etiology ===
Dark circles are a common aesthetic problem
that affects men and women equally.
These dark circles, also known as infraorbital
hyperpigmentation, and can make a person appear
tired, dull, and older than they are.
This can affect the facial aesthetics of the
person and even impact the way that they are
perceived.
People with dark circles are more likely to
be presumed tired and incapable of keeping
up as they are at peak fatigue levels.
Dark circles are a sizable cosmetic concern
as they are hard to completely conceal with
makeup and their presence alters facial perception
and beauty negatively.
So what counts as Dark Undereye Circles?
From clinical analysis by Huang et al there
are 4 main types of dark undereye circles
classified by hue and tone, with V for Vascular,
S for Structural, M for Mixed and P for Pigmented.
For most people the pigmented and vascular
types are the most visible and troublesome.
Using this, Huang’s paper sets up an assessment
score that looks at 9 factors, including hue,
lesions, puffiness, undereye bags, grooves
and eyelid sag.
In this figure, it’s apparent to see how
the 4 different classified skin types change
with increasing undereye darkness, with the
right set of images being taken under UV light.
It’s important for a surgeon or clinician
to correctly classify the undereye circle
as the treatments are completely different
for each.
For instance, Pigmented types require bleaching
agents or light and heat laser treatment whereas
Vascular types require Vitamin K, or special
vascular lasers.
Structural types require fillers or upper
and lower blepharoplasty as the name suggests,
because the issue is underlying.
As the paper notes, most common therapeutics
are ineffective because they assume all undereye
dark circles are the vascular type and try
to solve the solution with topical Vitamin
supplements.
While papers such as Ahmadraji Et al show
an improvement in skin elasticity and darkening
using Vitamin K and caffeine eye pads, your
mileage will most definitely vary as we’ll
show you in a second.
Before that, If you’re looking for help
identifying and treating dark undereye circles
then I recommend using our free Facial Assessment
Tool which uses Machine Learning to identify
cosmetic flaws and then recommends articles
that our Doctors have written to learn more
on the topic.
We get asked this a lot, but no your images
aren’t saved anywhere (read the FAQ), it’s
free to use and we designed the algorithm
from the ground up to include an even mix
of faces from every colour, ethnicity, shape,
size and age for the most comprehensive evaluation.
It is still in it’s early stages and we’ll
be increasing detection functionality but
it’s getting there steadily.Also, a lot
of big publications have given their honest
thoughts on the Tool so you should take a
read of those too if you're interested in
our AI applications in beauty research.
To understand what type of treatment you should
be seeking out for dark circles, let’s first
look at the potential causes.
Fatigue, stress, and tiredness, in general,
are the main reasons for the development of
dark circles but it is important to note that
it is a multifactorial condition meaning that
more than one factor can result in the development
of dark circles.
Some of the common causes for dark circle
formation from Vreck Et al include:
1.
Genetics: For some people, the formation of
dark undereye circles is associated with their
genetic makeup and inherited traits than it
is with their personal factors.
Some hereditary medical conditions can make
the affected person highly vulnerable to dark
circles.
From Hacker 1996, inherited dark circles are
more common in people of darker skin and Mediterranean
ancestry, becoming more apparent during adolescence.
The notion that dark circles form just because
you’re tired isn’t entirely correct and
for some races it’s a natural feature.
Regardless, it’s quite hard to differentiate
from actual disorders such as edema or a build
up of fluid in the under eye region.
2.
Sun Exposure: Spending too much time in the
sun is associated with the stimulation of
melanocytes to produce melanin, aka Dermal
Melanocytosis, creating dark lesions in the
undereye region.
This hyperpigmentation is more likely to occur
around the eyes with overexposure to the sun
but they aren’t dark undereye circles per
say, just a concentrated cluster of freckles.
3.
Dehydration: Not drinking enough water can
affect the proper functioning of all the organs
in the body.
The skin often appears mottled with dehydration
but the effects of dehydration appear exaggerated
on the skin under the lower eyelid.
The eyes can appear quite sunken in and dark
because as the water and fat content decreases,
the skin overlying the orbital cavity sinks
in.
4.
Eye Strain: Putting extra pressure on the
eyes in the form of increased screentime can
result in increased blood supply to the eyes.
This increase in blood supply is facilitated
by dilation or enlargement of the blood vessels
surrounding the eyes.
Which is fine and dandy normally, but for
those with fragile vessels, they can break
and spill blood which dries up leaving behind
dark hemoglobin pigments.
5.
Allergies: Allergic reactions are modulated
by histamine which is a vasodilator.
The dilation of the vessels around the eye
can also leak and darken the undereye in a
similar way to the previous case.
Another way as Chen and colleagues found is
with allergies causing deoxygenated darker
blood to pool up in the undereye as the nasal
passage becomes blocked leading to a completely
different type of undereye darkening.
It’s a lot more smooth and consistentwithout
any ripples so it’s not a structural or
pigmented type but rather a vascular dark
circle.
All of the reasons mentioned above can result
in the formation of dark circles but the exact
mechanism and visual characteristics in the
development of dark circles is individual
specific.
Some important factors like the anatomy of
the skin, deep facial anatomy, and soft tissues
are believed to play an important role in
the formation and determine if the dark circles
are going to be temporary or a persistent
feature of the face.
The under eye skin is one of the thinnest
coverings of the body and so subdermal strain
are very clearly expressed on the surface.
Given that dark circles affect mental health
and the physical attractiveness of a person,
it is important to treat them appropriately
to prevent any long-term issues with the self-image
and the worth of the person.
Although the treatment of dark circles is
mostly determined by the underlying cause,
there are general home remedies and topical
agents that can help reduce their appearance
significantly.
Some of the home remedies for the treatment
of dark circles include the use of a cold
compress and tea bags.
Personally, I really like the use of a cold
compress which is basically an Icepack for
your undereyes.
Both of these remedies follow the same pattern
of redirecting the blood circulating in the
undereye region.
A cold compress can shrink the blood vessels
resulting in improved microcirculation of
the skin pushing the dark blood down deeper
into the face and away from the surface.
Teabags work in the same way but it is important
to note that these tea bags should be soaked
in water and then refrigerated before being
used on dark circles.
Unlike a simple cold compress, teabags provide
added caffeine for vascular stimulation.
Topical agents are one of the best ways to
reduce the appearance of dark circles.
There are several topical agents available
on the market, but there is no solution that
can fix all three types of dark undereye circles
and so proper diagnosis is crucial.
A decent topical cream or lotion should contain
one of the following ingredients as they can
improve skin tone and consistency by enhancing
self-repair features of the skin: Before I
tell you, be sure to leave a like on this
video to help us create new content.
* Caffeine: This improves the microcirculation
of the skin and shrinks the blood vessels
surrounding the eyes which results in the
brightening of the under-eye region.
* Niacinamide: This is another name for vitamin
B3 and this specific ingredient works wonders
on dark circles by increasing the collagen
production in the skin and reducing skin inflammation.
Pilkington and colleagues found this to be
especially good at periocular rejuvenation,
which is what we’re after, with marked improvements
in texture, a reduction in fine lines and
hyperpigmentation.
However, a technicality is that the research
is referring to melanocyte dark circles, so
this type we talked about previously, and
not your typical vascular dark circles which
I would argue is more common for most.
* Vitamin C: Which has great antioxidative
properties that helps eradicate free radicals,
highly reactive atoms or molecules, the presence
of which can be detrimental by reacting with
skin structures that it shouldn’t.
* Vitamin K: This vitamin not only brightens
the undereye region via its effect on the
blood vessels but also repairs the skin from
the inside, allowing it to heal and look bright.
This is the goto ingredient for vascular dark
circles, and it’s most likely that this
is the type you will have problems with due
to our modern lifestyles and screen time.
* Retinol: This is a derivative of vitamin
A and is a superstar in pharmaceuticals.
As a result it also carries a premium cost
but it encourages sloughing off of pigmented
skin by promoting skin cell regeneration which
results in a bright and younger-looking under-eye
region.
Given that the undereye region is thin and
sensitive, be careful about the concentration
and use only products designed for the region
as this can be quite harsh.
* Hyaluronic Acid: This is another superstar
ingredient in dermatology that’s naturally
occurring in the body as a component of the
skin cell matrix.
It’s a humectant, meaning that it binds
to water at almost a 1:1000 ratio but it helps
maintain elasticity and regulate hydration
as Wiest and Kerscher found.
As for professional Medical treatment of dark
circles includes professional chemical peels,
laser treatments, and tissue fillers; all
of which try and improve the blood circulation
and the deep anatomy of the skin to reduce
the appearance of dark circles.
Cryolasers have been found to be especially
effective, but as most dermatologists suggest,
prevention is the best treatment.
My favourite piece of mantra and something
I follow closely is wearing sunscreen before
midday and using a retinoid based product
at night.
Chemical peels are a great way to reduce the
hyperpigmentation of the skin, regardless
of the cause but they are more aggressive.
Laser treatment of the skin refers to laser
surgery which aims to resurface, tighten and
whiten the facial skin.
The procedure should be performed by a professional
unless you have a 100,000 laser lying around
for whatever reason, to ensure that no unnecessary
complications arise.
Ever saw that laser scene in Final Destination?
Another form of medical treatment of dark
circles includes tissue fillers for structural
dark circles which may sound unorthodox but
they are quite helpful in concealing any visible
blood vessels and repairing contour deformity
such as hollow eyes which occur naturally
with age.
If you would like to get your dark undereye
circles assessed, order a QOVES facial report
over at the website to get 7000 words of technical
feedback and guidance on how you can improve
your looks.

=== Your Skull Predicts Your Ethnicity ===
﻿The Art and Science Facial Reconstruction
The skull is made up of 22 bones, with every  
unique face having its own variation due to the 
environment during development and every person  
having distinctive soft-tissue facial features. 
So, how do forensic scientists piece together  
the complicated puzzle of skeletal remains 
to develop intricate 3D models of faces?
 
The importance of facial aesthetics is found 
in a variety of disciplines, proving it to be  
a multifaceted science that is valued throughout 
both Eastern and Western Culture. You may see the  
fruits of facial aesthetics research in physical 
anthropology, who look at the cultural nuances  
and differences between facial construction 
across different populations. You may see it  
with Plastic surgeons, who operationalise 
facial aesthetics research to redefine the  
facial features of clients. You’ll also see 
facial aesthetics research with Psychologists,  
who assess and continually conceptualize 
the link between cognitive psychology  
and perception with facial attractiveness. On 
top of that, Engineers use facial aesthetics  
to develop Artificial Intelligence models 
to calculate and assess aesthetic ideals,  
And, most importantly for today, forensic 
scientists use facial aesthetics research  
for facial reconstruction, allowing them 
to identify deceased people whose skeletons  
have deteriorated. Archaeologists also 
use facial reconstruction technology,  
developed through facial aesthetics research, 
allowing them to create 3-dimensional portraits of  
people from the past, like ancient Egyptian 
mummies, or even famous musicians like Bach.  
Today we will look at how archaeologists and 
Forensic scientists balance scientific rigour,  
supported by the extensive field of facial 
aesthetics research, and artistic interpretation,  
to develop the most precise and accurate 
reconstructions of faces of the deceased.
 
Forensic facial anthropology and science is 
the interpretation of human remains to attempt  
to depict the face of the individual. In recent 
years, the field came into light after the major  
natural disasters of the Boxing Day Tsunami in 
Indonesia in 2004 and Hurricane Katrina in America  
just a year later. With so many lives lost, and 
bodies decomposed, years of facial construction  
surgery came into play to literally piece 
together humans. When you look at the human face,  
the unique elements of every one can be daunting. 
Every human has their own unique skin colour,  
hair style, eye colour, nose shape, eye shape, 
cheek bone formation, jawline facial ratio  
and more. What is important to forensic 
scientists and archaeologists is how these  
facial features join together and compliment each 
other, allowing them to use the morphological  
qualities of the human skull to piece 
together the puzzle of the human face.
 
As stated by a seminal 2016 anatomical paper by 
Caroline Wilkinson, the mainstream method for  
facial reconstruction is through a 3D computerized 
technique that places facial sculptures over skull  
replicas, creating a facial appearance 
that appears living. As can be seen here,  
the 3D computerized model shown below by C is a 
step above the 2D sketches of earlier generations  
represented by A, and above the clay-based 
3D models represented by B. Conveniently,  
the reconstruction technique involves three 
elements, namely, anatomical modelling, morphology  
determination, and the depiction of the resulting 
face. Let’s run over each of these steps and their  
link to the mainstream facial aesthetics research 
that is the centrefold of QOVES studio. 
 
First, Anatomical Modeling. With 
only minor variations between humans,  
faces have a similar number of muscles, 
each with the same attachments and origins,  
and this similarity is what allows anatomy to be 
an evidence based science. However, in relation to  
the skull, the size and shape of these individual 
muscles vary between individuals. The size and  
shape of individual facial muscles have a direct 
influence on craniofacial morphology, or the size  
and shape of the skull and face. The role of the 
forensic scientist is to infer qualities about  
both the skull and the muscles surrounding the 
skull based on the little information they have.  
As the muscles attached to the skull are 
intrinsically linked to the bones of the skull,  
having information about 1 element of the face can 
lead us to understand its complimentary element.  
For example, when the cheekbones are wide 
and heavy, the basis of the cheek muscle,  
whose scientific name are the 
zygomaticus major and minor muscles,  
will be placed further back in the face, and when 
they are narrow and slender, they will be based  
closer to the front of the face. Now, back to 
the earlier balancing act of juggling scientific  
rigour with artistic interpretation, it is clearly 
stated in the research that anatomical guidelines  
need to be followed to create reliable 
reconstructions of faces. As such, there  
is no room in step 1 of facial reconstruction 
technology for artistic interpretation. 
 
Remember now, if not always, to like this video 
and subscribe to the QOVES channel, I’m giving you  
a 5 second break before I fry 
your brain with content.. 
 
Step 2, morphology determination, holds a similar 
evidence based structure with little room for  
artistry. As the rules of forensic facial 
reconstruction are so developed and tight,  
there is simply no need to put a subjective touch 
to the appearance of the reconstructed skull at  
this point. In this step, the bony detail of the 
skull is assessed. This bony detail is compared  
to the standards of anatomical principles and 
hence the skull is pieced together. For example,  
when looking towards piecing together the eye 
region of the skull, the inner and outer canthi,  
or the medial and lateral canthi, seen here as 
the bones attached to the corner of the eye,  
are looked at in detail with reference to 
extensive dissection studies. Factors like  
the curves of eyelid margins, the symmetry of 
the two bones, the angles of the two canthi  
and their relative position to the skull are all 
considered. This process as detailed for the eye,  
is repeated for the nose, with considerable 
detail as shown here, looking at septum deviation,  
nasal spine nerves, the bone aperture 
and nasal base angle. The morphology  
determination continues and is completed for 
different elements, with reference to lip shape,  
mouth, teeth, jaw and more. By this point, the 
relationship of the skull to facial muscles is  
used to create a craniofacial structure, as 
referenced in stage one, and then, in stage two,  
the positioning and sizing of that skull is 
detailed out through the relation of the bony  
details of the skull fragments and the priorly 
defined standards of anatomy. To complete step  
two, there is an addition of a skin layer, placed 
in relation to the skeletal and muscular model,  
using evidence to consider the tissue depth 
of the skin and the sagginess of the skin.  
Deliberation is also used, alongside 
comparisons to international data sets,  
to incorporate the sex, ethnic group and 
age of the individual being modelled. 
 
The final step of forensic facial reconstruction 
is to extrapolate the scientific findings so  
that the general public can benefit from the 
research.This third step is where there is the  
greatest subjectivity and ‘artistic license’ 
to interpret the reconstruction as you’d like.  
Forensic experts, normally with only limited 
evidence to base their facial reconstruction off,  
typically find themselves struggling to 
objectively style the hair, skin detail  
and facial hair of the skulls. Other factors 
that influence the recognition include whether  
or not they wore glasses, but unfortunately, the 
bony details of the skull won’t tell you that.  
As research from Wright and Sladden explains, 
these changeable features, such as hairstyle,  
skincare and the wearing of glasses, can 
considerably affect the recognition levels  
of faces. One extremely important implication of 
this is recognising reconstructed models after  
natural disasters, as friends and family may have 
trouble identifying loved ones if an individual’s  
subjective characteristics have been wrongly 
interpreted. As such, even though this third step  
gives forensic scientists an artistic license for 
interpretation, it is still strongly in their best  
interest to be as accurate as possible.
Regardless of the implications of artistic  
interpretation, Some really common examples 
of depicting the facial reconstruction for  
public presentation include the representation 
of preserved bodies like that of the mummified  
egyptians, the depiction of what disease and 
trauma must have been like for individuals in  
earlier centuries, and also what famous figures 
of earlier generations would have looked like,  
for example, famous classical composer Johann 
Bach. This third interpretation of forensic  
facial reconstruction is considerably interesting 
when you consider that portrait paintings were  
routinely completed of famous musicians, 
painters and important cultural icons,  
and these paintings can give reference material 
about skin textures, skin colour and the degree of  
fatness to facial reconstruction experts As 
such, the facial recognition technology for  
famous people of earlier centuries is much 
more enhanced than those of common folk,  
as forensic experts have that added evidence 
about hair and skin details that are so crucial  
to the recognition of an individual. 
So, Overall, facial aesthetics research  
helps inform forensic scientists on how to model 
the skull and facial muscles to develop complex  
and accurate 3D models of the faces of deceased 
people. By using facial aesthetics research,  
scientists can develop computerized 
craniofacial models. These models become  
very important in history, when we attempt to 
look back at the people of centuries before.  
It is also very important in evolution studies, as 
we attempt to map out our ancestors. But perhaps  
most importantly, forensic facial reconstruction 
helps people to identify the deceased, and this  
is why it is crucial that facial reconstruction 
is as accurate as possible. The three main steps  
of facial reconstruction are anatomical modeling, 
morphology determination and depiction of models  
for viewing by the public. Artistic interpretation 
is used heavily in this third step, however it is  
in forensic scientists best interests to keep 
this interpretation as accurate as possible.

=== The Differences Between Male and Female Eye Shapes | What Makes A Face Attractive? ===
﻿Eye Shape Differences Between Genders
There is a clear difference between the  
features of the eye for men and for 
women, and this difference can be  
used to maximise the aesthetics of the face 
of an individual from either gender. 
 
Eyes are a crucially defining 
element of an individual,  
with recognition of even famous celebrities 
being much harder without reference to the eyes.  
Throughout popular literature, eyes are constantly 
referred to as a concept of beauty, power, and  
even mystery, from Van Morrison’s Brown Eyed Girl, 
to Shakespeare’s famous quotes. With that in mind,  
it is important to conceptualize the eyes fit 
into our wider understanding of facial aesthetics.  
Today we will work to deeper understand some 
of the mystery behind the eye, specifically,  
the shape and size of eyes, the differences in 
this shape and size between males and females,  
and the role of eye features on aspects of 
facial attractiveness. Throughout the video,  
I will refer to ‘ocular features’, to 
describe features relating to the eye,  
as ocular is the scientific term meaning “relating 
to the eye”. Sexual Dimorphism is the phenomenon  
in which males and females from the same species 
have systematic differences in the size and shape  
of certain features of their body, beyond 
the sexual organs. Some examples of sexual  
dimorphism in humans include facial hair, height, 
skull shape, jaw and the list goes on.The roots  
of sexual dimorphism come from Darwinism, who 
was a pioneer in recognising marked differences  
between the same species. Most importantly for 
today, extensive scientific and sociobiological  
research has shown that sexual dimorphism extends 
into the ocular morphology of humans, that is,  
that men and women have marked differences 
in the shapes and sizes of their eyes.
 
To explore the sexual dimorphism of ocular 
features, or the differences in eye shape between  
genders, we will look towards a European study by 
Darius Daniel and colleagues, published only last  
year. First, facial photographs were taken from 
100 European participants, with 50 men, and 50  
women, all between the ages of 19-36 used to be 
analysed. Importantly, to appropriately measure  
eye shape and size, as well as sexually dimorphic 
features, no facial cosmetics, or even facial  
expressions, were allowed. To measure the ocular 
morphology of the eye, 3 different measurements  
were used. First, a ‘width to height ratio of 
the eye outline’, or WHR measurement was used.  
This measured the width between one corner of the 
eye (closer to the ear) to the other corner of  
the eye (closest to the nose), seen here by the 
blue dotted line, and compared it in a ratio to  
the height of the eye, measured as the longest 
possible distance between the bottom eyelid and  
the top eyelid, shown here as a solid red line. 
Next, a ‘Sclera Size Index’, or an SSI, was used.  
The SSI is another ratio, this time comparing 
the width of the exposed eyeball, shown in the  
diagram as a dotted orange line, in ratio to the 
Diameter of the Iris, shown in the diagram as a  
solid horizontal yellow line. For the purpose of 
all scientific measurements, the Iris is the thin  
structure around the pupil of the eye that gives 
an eye its characteristic, distinct colour.  
 
The final measure used to define the ocular 
morphology was the overall surface of the visible  
sclera, represented as the ‘Sclera Surface Ratio’, 
or SSR, A ratio defined as the total surface of  
the visible eyeball, as measured by pixels on a 
computer screen, represented here as pink shading,  
compared to the surface of the iris and the 
pupil, represented by the green shading. The pink  
dots within the green shading here represent that 
there is overlap, such that wherever the iris and  
pupil surface area are being measured, so is the 
overall eyeball surface area being measured. On  
top of all of these measurements, a luminance 
measurement, or effectively, a brightness contrast  
measurement, was used to test the difference 
in brightness between the whites of the eyes,  
known as the sclera, and the iris. This 
measurement was referred to as a ‘relative Iris  
luminance’ or RIL. An example of a high contrast 
between sclera and Iris can be seen here.
 
Now, before we get onto the (exciting) slog 
of statistics that will objectively prove  
the differences between men and women’s eye 
shape, make sure to li ke and subscribe,  
and comment what you think about this 
topic. Ok, so back to stats!
 
With all these measurements in mind, the 
data was collated and compared to check  
whether there was a statistically significant 
difference in the shape and size of the eye for  
men compared to women. Looking at the 
descriptive statistics, we can see that all  
the data was normally distributed, shown here by 
non-significant p-values from a Shapiro wilk test,  
that is, p-values that are not special, defined 
as an p-value greater than 0.05, (and are hence  
normal). Also, just by eyeballing the descriptive 
statistics, we can see that men tend to have a  
greater average Sclera Size Index, Sclera Surface 
Ratio and a greater Width to Height ratio of eye  
outline when compared to women. The same data also 
shows us that women will have a greater average  
Relative Iris Luminance when compared to men. 
However, to see whether these differences in  
eye shape and size are scientifically significant 
and not simply due to chance brought about by the  
small sample, a comparative statistical ‘t-test’ 
needed to be done. Looking at this table, any  
p-value under 0.05, will be seen as statistically 
significant. This is the opposite to what we were  
looking at before with the normally distributed 
data, as now we want a special, abnormal result,  
as that would signal that we have a 
special effect in the data. As you can see,  
all of the eye measurements have significant 
differences between men and women, except the  
Sclera Surface Ratio. When we compare the male 
and female averages for these significant results,  
we can infer that men have a greater Sclera Size 
index compared to women, and a greater Width to  
height ratio than women. On the other hand, women 
have a greater Relative Iris Luminance than men.  
The final thing to look at with this analysis 
of ocular sex differences is the effect size,  
whereby a number closer to 1 indicates a stronger 
effect. As can be seen from this part of the  
table, the Width to Height Ratio of eye outline 
shows the strongest effect, meaning the most  
prolific difference for men compared to women. All 
of this information can be re-understood through  
another interpretation of the data, whereby 
the green slope refers to women’s measurements,  
and the red slope refers to men. Slopes further 
to the right indicate a larger measurement. 
 
Now, this paper, and our video, has proven that 
there is sexual dimorphism in the shape and size  
of eyes for the two sexes. Further analysis by 
the paper attempted to see if these differences  
between men and women have been due to generations 
of sexual selection for dimorphic eyes. In other  
words, over time, have our eyes adapted to be 
distinct for our gender, because that was seen as  
more attractive to potential partners. The paper 
did this by attempting to correlate the scleral  
characteristics found for men and women to widely 
acknowledged markers of facial beauty, that is,  
ways of measuring facial beauty that are accepted 
all throughout the field of facial aesthetics.  
These facial beauty markers were individual 
expressions of facial sexual dimorphism and  
averageness. As expressed by the author of 
the paper, “neither averageness nor facial  
sexual dimorphism was correlated with the examined 
characteristics of eye morphology.” In easy terms,  
sexual dimorphism for eye shape and size are not 
due to a sexual preference for dimorphic eyes,  
but are perhaps due to non-adaptive 
processes which have developed over time. 
 
As is always important at QOVES studio, it is 
important not to attain a eurocentric bias by only  
focusing on a caucasian sample. If we look towards 
the discussion of this paper, references can be  
made to earlier studies by Hajnis and colleagues 
who developed their own eye measurement scale to  
quantify ocular morphology. This eye measurement 
scale, known as the ‘eye fissure index’ measures  
the height and width of the eye, in a measurement 
scale very comparable to the WHR scale that is  
used all throughout this paper. Most importantly, 
Hajnis studied differences between genders in a  
range of populations, including African-American’s 
and Chinese demographics. Results show that  
for all 3 demographics, men have significantly 
wider eye-fissures compared to women, which is  
a statistic that is further evidence towards 
the finding found from this paper. While this  
result shows elements of generalisability from the 
Daniels study, it was noted that in Hajnis’ study,  
the effect was greatest for Caucasians. I believe 
the field of cross-cultural sexual dimorphism for  
eye shape would be further improved by even more 
studies like Hajnis’ one, really attempting to  
scientifically quantify gender differences in 
eye shape and size for different cultures.
 
Overall, The research has shown that there 
are gender differences in the shape of eyes,  
yet have analysed that these differences that have 
emerged over time are not due to sexual selection.  
An important taking from this finding is that, as 
mentioned in a previous video, sexual dimorphism  
is a symbol of attractiveness, and recognising 
sexual dimorphism in eye shape allows us to  
infer how the eye can be shaped to maximise 
dimorphism and hence facial attractiveness.

=== To Shave Or Not To Shave? | What Is The Ideal Amount of Facial Hair? ===
﻿What is the perfect facial hair 
for facial attractiveness?
 
Male facial hair has seen many trends 
and fashion fads over the years  
with at least one website per year claiming that 
facial hair is no longer in fashion. However,  
that couldn’t be further from the truth. Facial 
hair is always in fashion and it is more than just  
a fashion statement. In fact, it is saturated with 
social cues and determines how a man is perceived  
by other males and females in the social setting. 
Moreover, facial hair or beards play a significant  
role in a man’s social and personal life. 
Beards and mustaches, or male facial hair,  
play a vital role in how a man is perceived and 
what opportunities are made available to him,  
socially, personally, and professionally. 
Different types of male facial hair allow  
men to be perceived as masculine, aggressive, 
socially and physically mature, and dominant  
which consequently affects every single 
opportunity that is ever presented to them. 
 
Researchers at Northumbria University performed 
a study with the purpose of assessing the female  
perception of male facial hair. This research 
is considered to be conclusive research on the  
topic of facial hair and its perception as it 
has very few limitations and it was performed  
such that it proves the points raised by other 
researchers on the same topic that they could  
never prove themselves. The study focused on how 
women perceived different types of beards and  
what character traits they associated with the 
specific type of facial hair. For the purpose of  
this study, researchers created pictures of 10 
clean-shaven men using the FACES software. The  
FACES software uses a wide database to research 
and create faces with general and popular  
features. These pictures were then rated out of 
10 by 16 of the female participants, with 1 being  
unattractive and 10 being extremely attractive. 
This first round of analysis only focused  
entirely on the female perception of male facial 
features and their apparent attractiveness. 
 
After the female participants rated these 
10 pictures, 3 pictures were found to have  
similar attractiveness ratings and were 
chosen to progress to the next phase.  
In this phase, the remaining 60 female 
participants were shown the 3 pictures but each  
picture was processed to create five different 
pictures; Picture of the same face was altered  
to have a clean-shaven appearance, light stubble, 
heavy stubble, light beard, and full beard.  
This resulted in a total of 15 pictures that were 
shown to women participating in the study. 
 
According to the results of the study, most women 
found men with light beards and full beards to be  
masculine, aggressive, and older than those with 
light stubble or clean-shaven appearance. It is  
important to note that although masculinity is 
a trait often sought after in social situations,  
too much of it can be off-putting. And that was 
found to be the case with the participants of this  
study. However, they associated these men to be 
more socially mature than those with a clean shave  
and light stubble, which is a positive trait 
to have in social relationships. This group of  
males had both positives and negatives but the 
negative traits outshone the positive, resulting  
in women rating them as least attractive. In 
fact, most females perceived the younger-looking  
male pictures, those with light stubble or 
heavy stubble to be more attractive. 
 
As you should be getting used to by now, 
make sure to like this video to help the  
QOVES channel, and subscribe for much more 
relevant content about facial aesthetics research.  
You do that and we’ll show you this.  
Anyway, It is important to mention that these  
ratings of attractiveness and the 
perception of women were affected  
by the social norms surrounding male facial 
hair. Up until the level of heavy stubble,  
male facial hair may be perceived as a sign of 
social maturity, intelligence, and respectability.  
However, higher levels of facial hair may 
point towards non-conformity, shabbiness,  
and a general disregard for social norms. A full 
beard that is not maintained or trimmed further  
exaggerates these perspectives and can result 
in women finding even the most attractive facial  
features unattractive. All of this combined 
with the drastic difference in social norms  
and their effects on facial attractiveness based 
on levels of facial hair may affect women’s  
perception and their attractiveness ratings. 
This is especially apparent when considering  
facial hair in different cultures and how women 
of different cultures respond to the levels of  
facial hair. For example, Caucasian young 
adults with clean shave or light stubble  
may be considered to be attractive 
whereas Middle Eastern young adult males  
would require at least heavy stubble or light 
beard to be considered attractive. 
 
If we consider this graph in more detail, 
taken from an Australian study in 2013,  
we can see that facial hair on a man can 
subconsciously impact a variety of socially  
relevant judgements. There are obvious socially 
relevant criteria that facial hair can impact,  
such as the masculinity of a man. As facial hair 
is seen as a sexually dimorphic feature, it makes  
sense that greater amounts of facial hair increase 
the mean rating of an individual’s masculinity.  
Just to recall, sexual dimorphic features refer to 
any feature that are different for men and women,  
you can learn more about that with 
specific reference to facial hair here.  
In this case, the fact that most men can grow 
facial hair and most women cannot means that  
facial hair is a sexualy dimorphic feature.
Looking back to the graphs, we can see that facial  
hair has a more convoluted relationship 
to the perceived health of an individual.  
With females represented through the white 
bars, and males through the dark bar, it is  
seen that a full beard is also the best indicator 
of health. This may be due to the fact that facial  
hair signifies continual growth, and for the 
most part, continual growth represents health.  
Perhaps the most surprising correlation is 
that a full beard correlates to the greatest  
perceived parenting ability. This may have 
its roots in a beard signifying maturity,  
and also may be inter-correlated to the fact 
that facial hair signals masculinity.  
 
In general, women preferred males who could grow 
a beard as their partners as it indicated physical  
maturity but did not prefer men who had full 
beards as that just pointed towards older age.  
This pattern was also seen when female 
participants were asked to choose amongst  
the 15 pictures for who they would prefer for 
both, long-term and short-term relationships.  
While the women preferred those with 
light stubble and heavy stubble,  
they steered clear of anyone with 
a full beard or a clean shave.  
This provides further proof that although women 
prefer a physically mature male, they are not big  
fans of men who appear older. 
An important thing to note here  
is that although the participants in this study 
associated the pictures of men with full beards  
with old age and pictures of men with light 
stubble and heavy stubble with the prime age,  
the actual age gap between these pictures is not 
as severe but rather just a moderate age gap of  
approximately 4 to 5 years. But female perception 
tells a different story completely. 
 
The verdict here is that facial hair is important 
for the positive perception of men by women,  
both socially and sexually. However, the type 
of facial hair makes all the differencebetween  
long and short term relationship success. A light 
to heavy stubble, indicating men’s ability to grow  
a beard, is the perfect facial hair for men to 
be perceived as attractive, masculine enough,  
and socially mature individuals who would 
make great long-term and short-term partners.

=== Is The Fox Eye Look Always In Season? | The Research Behind Medial Canthal Tilt in Facial Aesthetic ===
Is Medial Canthal Tilt a Powerful Cue for
Facial Attractiveness?
The eyes of a female can be a powerful predictor
of facial attractiveness, with over 90% of
people rating a tilt in the inner eye as more
attractive than an eye without a tilt.
The medial Canthus is the inner extreme of
the eye, the area closest to the nose.
If we look towards trends in makeup and fashion,
it’s clear that a big emphasis is placed
on accentuating a ‘tilt’ on this inner
part of the eye, so that the inner margin
of the eye appears to be slanted downwards.
If we look towards certain models, like Claire
Forlani, seen here in this picture on the
left, and Jennifer Connelly seen in the middle,
it seems as if this extreme tilt is the main
feature potentially responsible for why these
models are so attractive.
If we look towards certain masks, like the
harlequin mask, It is also seen that the tilt
is exaggerated, with the overall goal of making
people look more attractive while they wear
it.
Finally, we can even go as far as looking
at Manga and comic characters that are designed
to be attractive with the medial canthal tilt,
the slope on the inner part of the eye, being
accentuated.
So it’s clear that there is a recognition
across the cosmetic, entertainment and design
industries of the potential of an exaggerated
medial canthal tilt as an attractive feature
of facial aesthetics, but is there a perfect
amount of tilt, and how can this tilt be used
effectively to enhance facial attractiveness?
In an earlier video by QOVES, we looked at
whether there is a difference in eye shape
between men and women that would categorise
the eyes as a sexually dimorphic feature of
the face, and you can check that video out
here.
Today, we will look specifically about female
eye shape with reference to facial attractiveness.
A study by academics at the University of
Toronto attempted to scientifically quantify
the features of this eye shape phenomenon
by developing the anthropometric measure we’ve
been talking about, the medial canthal tilt.
The term, only defined in this paper for the
first time in 2007, shows how the field of
facial aesthetics research up until recently,
was largely scientifically undefined.
To identify whether the medial canthal tilt
was an important cue in evaluating human female
facial attractiveness, the researchers conducted
an experimental study using the technology
‘SuperLab Pro’, forcing judges to make
a choice between unmodified faces and ones
which had their medial canthal tilt accentuated
through the use of Adobe Photoshop.
To do this, 66 female faces from the university
of toronto database were sourced, to maintain
consistency in the trials, and due to the
demographic of toronto being predominantly
of white European descent, only females of
caucasian descent were used.
As always at QOVES, we highly recommend that
further research include samples of females
from a diverse range of populations, as this
will ensure a wider application of the effect
of a medial canthal tilt affecting ratings
of attractiveness.
Nonetheless, persevering with this study,
the eye tilt of each individual female, who
was not wearing makeup or any adornments like
earrings, were subtly photoshopped to create
an enhanced medial tilt.
For the purpose of the study, the judges were
masked from knowing that they were responding
to differing eye tilts.
Instead, the raters of the face thought they
were judging the attractiveness of the two
images that had slightly different colouring.
So with that in mind, the judges had three
seconds once both images were presented on
the screen to judge which one they thought
was more attractive.
As is the case with lots of university research,
university students were the judges for the
study, with 50 men and 50 women assessing
the 66 images of the female faces.
To ensure there were no accidental confounding
variables in the study, these judges were
excluded if they recognised any of the faces.
After completing this preference task 66 times,
the judges were finally told the true purpose
of the study, realizing that medial canthal
tilt was being assessed, and not the supposed
different colouring.
As the cosmetics, entertainment and design
industry trends would have hinted, it was
found that the female faces with accentuated
medial canthal tilt were preferred 93% of
the time over unmodified faces, with a probability
value of p less than 0.001, meaning that the
chances that this result was by accident was
less than 0.1%.
To contextualise this result, as there were
two options of the face which could be perceived
as more attractive (either the modified face
or the unmodified face), if there was no effect
due to enhanced medial canthal tilt, each
condition should have received 50% of the
votes for more attractive.
The resounding 93% that was found significantly
shows that the accentuation is quantitatively
seen as more attractive.
As both males and females rated these faces,
it was interesting to see that males rated
the accentuated tilt more attractive 94% of
the time, whereas females rated it more attractive
92% of the time.
While this is a difference, the sample size
of 50 for each gender means that this difference
is not statistically significant, falling
into the middle part of the normal distribution
of probability, and you could NOT infer that
men rate the medial canthal tilt higher than
women.
A note in the study stated that most of the
participants were genuinely surprised upon
finding out that the medial canthal tilt had
been altered between the two faces, suggesting
that subtle and even unrecognisable features
to the common person are vitally important
in determining the overall facial aesthetic.
This is another reason to go check out the
QOVES facial analysing tool, which can tell
you things about your facial aesthetic that
you might not have ever thought about yourself.
To help grow the channel and to make sure
you keep up to date with all the facial aesthetics
research in a brain friendly way, make sure
to like this video, subscribe to the QOV ES
channel and leave a comment to let us know
what you’d like us to focus on next.
Now, the data from the experiment shows strongly
that this inner eye tilt is a cue of importance
in creating female human facial attractiveness.
And it is even thought that 
this 
tilt could be a sexually dimorphic feature,
that is, a feature that is different for females
than for males.
When recognising it as a sexually dimorphic
feature, we can see why this tilt would be
more attractive, as it signals to 
the brain of the judge that it is a more feminine
face.
Another reason the tilt may be subconsciously
judged as more attractive is because it produces
the illusion of a more oblique palpebral fissure.
A palpebral fissure is the measurement of
the area between the two eyelids.
Oblique, in this context, refers to the idea
of a slant.
So, this is actually quite an obvious explanation,
simply saying that the tilt of the inner eye
creates the illusion of a greater slant.
This greater slant is seen as more attractive
as it gives the illusion of youthfulness,
as children have greater palpebral fissure
inclination compared 
to adults.
(Godfrey gao example, + z1 example) “In
this example, the man has a prominent epicanthic
fold which covers his eyes and make them appear
smaller and so if we were to rotate the tilt
downwards, it would start to look alien.
So the tilt has to match your eye morphology.
Now, with all of this research in mind, it
makes sense to seek out some sort of surgical
intervention to increase one's medial canthal
tilt.
In fact, it is noted in the research that
numerous female judges asked the authors of
the study if there was a surgical procedure
that could accentuate the tilt.
Currently, there exists no simple surgical
procedure to accentuate this tilt, however
there is a fairly common procedure which can
be used to accentuate the overall palpebral
fissure, which can create a more youthful
look.
Innovative oculoplastic surgeons are no doubt
designing procedures to accentuate the medial
canthal tilt, and QOVES recommendation to
those surgeons is to take extreme care to
avoid any potential damage to the anatomy
and function of what are very delicate structures
around that area of the eye.
So, with designers, animators and artists
purposely accentuating this tilt in the design
of their characters, and with the modelling
and entertainment industry purposefully seeking
out individuals with this tilt, it seems like
the medial canthal tilt is a powerful predictor
of female facial attractiveness, increasing
the sexual dimorphism of the face and acting
to create a greater slant in the eyes, which
gives a more youthful look to the face.
With surgical procedures being extremely uncommon
for this specific ocular feature, it seems
that the best way to accentuate the inner
eye 
tilt 
is through make up, giving the appearance
of 
a ‘cat-like’ eye shape.

=== Have Long Necks Always Been A Beauty Standard? | What Makes A Face Attractive ===
﻿How neck shape and size is seen 
as beautiful across the world
 
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder which means 
beauty is a social construct that changes from  
person to person. Each person considers different 
aspects of face and body beautiful. Furthermore,  
different people find different sizes 
and shapes of facial and body features  
beautiful. Although all of these statements 
are inherently true, real life isn’t as  
straightforward, because beauty standards exist 
and so do, traditionally beautiful people.
 
The reason behind beauty standards, despite 
differences in individual standards,  
is that culturally similar people 
are bound to perceive beauty,  
along with many other factors if their 
life, similarly. This is what gives rise  
to beauty standards which are usually only 
standard for specific cultures. However,  
the uprise of social media and increased 
representation of the Western and European  
beauty standards has resulted in those beauty 
standards becoming the well-accepted standard.
 
 
Another reason for a global standard of 
beauty of certain facial and body features  
is that most of the cultures have a very similar 
perception of beauty, since the beginning, hence  
allowing certain features to become the standard 
features of beauty. This, when combined with the  
vast representation of specific facial features, 
has resulted in certain facial features being  
international standards, regardless of culture. 
One of the best examples of this phenomenon is  
the size and shape of the neck. According to most 
fashion curators studying fashion, beauty, and  
their history, the desire for a long neck is the 
only aesthetic that is universally shared. 
 
Different cultures view a slender and long neck 
as a thing of beauty. Although the reasoning  
behind it is different in each culture, they all 
agree that it makes a woman look more graceful and  
hence, beautiful. Men from some cultures claim 
that it may not be the first thing they notice  
about a woman, but it is definitely a feature 
that can significantly increase the beauty of  
a woman whereas, in other cultures, men 
openly seek out women with long necks. 
 
The culture of Kayaan women from Myanmar 
holds long and slender necks responsible  
for the beauty of women. In fact, these women 
wear brass rings around their necks to give  
the illusion of a growing, long neck. They start 
wearing these rings from a very young age, between  
5 years and 8 years, all in the pursuit of beauty. 
Starting usually with five rings, they keep on  
adding rings as they grow older and by the time 
they are adults, they have over 10 rings around  
their necks. It is important to emphasize that 
although the neck appears to be growing longer  
every year, it actually isn’t and it is all the 
result of the illusion created by the rings. 
 
The Western and European cultures also consider 
long necks to be quite significant in beautifying  
a woman, although no drastic steps are taken to 
achieve the look. Women from these areas often  
perform stretches and yoga poses to get along 
and slender neck. The lack of drastic steps is  
simply because of a lack of options. Apart from 
stretching, not much can be done to actually  
elongate the neck as the size of the neck depends 
on the bones in the neck, and altering them,  
in any invasive form, is highly risky and almost 
impossible. Often nicknamed a ballerina’s neck,  
the long neck is considered beautiful 
because of its graceful appearance. 
 
The general consensus, basically, between 
different cultures is that a long neck is  
an attractive feature for women to have. 
Actresses, dancers, and models from all  
over the world try to achieve this feature 
as it increases their chances of being  
viewed as a versatile actor, graceful 
dancer, and a beautiful supermodel. 
 
It is important to note that a long neck, despite 
being a beauty standard and a sought-after  
physical feature, alone doesn’t result in 
beauty. The reason behind that is simple;  
beauty is not the addition of all standard 
facial features but rather a result of symmetry  
and compatibility of facial features. The neck 
shape and size has to match the shape and size  
of the face and the body for it to be considered 
beautiful. In fact, a long neck, when matched with  
a round face may not appear as attractive 
and proportionate as one would hope. 
 
As usual make sure to like and subscribe 
to QOVES for more analysis of the leading  
research. If you do, we’ll show you how what not 
to do when aiming for neck related beauty. 
 
At this point, the question that comes to 
mind is why is a long neck such an important  
part of these cultures and tier definition of 
beauty? Of all of the neck shapes, why is there  
a predilection for long and narrow necks? There 
are various possible answers to these questions  
and they focus on two very different aspects; 
cultural representation and psychology. 
 
From the perspective of Kayaan culture, long necks 
are a symbolization of wealth and prosperity.  
This symbolization of wealth is an aspect they 
share with other cultures, which are going to be  
mentioned below. According to them, long necks are 
characteristics of dragons, the highest animal,  
and the animal they consider to be the father of 
everything. To appear as graceful, strong, and  
well-balanced as the dragon would significantly 
raise the status of the women in that society.  
This is why women start wearing brass rings around 
their necks, from a young age, till they are young  
adults. Although it doesn’t actually elongate the 
neck, it does create the illusion of a long neck  
and this is the main reason why long necks are 
considered to be the highest standard of beauty by  
Kayaans. 
Another reason for the  
popularity of long necks, over other neck shapes 
is that they allow a person to clearly express  
themselves through body language. Women with 
long necks can use it to be flirty and express  
vulnerability, which increases their chances with 
men. According to the psychology of body language,  
exposing your neck, which becomes extremely 
prominent if you have a long neck, is a sign  
of expressing vulnerability. This gives men the 
sign that a woman is flirty with them, and neck  
exposure is very commonly seen in couples who are 
in the early phases of their relationship. 
 
Long necks also allow for other body language 
cues to become more prominent and increase  
social relationships and intimacy. Basically 
speaking, women can flirt and convey warmth along  
with vulnerability using their long, ballerina 
necks. A simple yet common example of this  
is the ‘hair flip’ gesture most women do. Hair 
flip is basically a variation of neck exposure,  
which when combined with a warm and welcoming 
smile, is guaranteed to make them appear more  
attractive and interested in others. 
In some cultures, the neck is a neutral  
zone that connects the logic, rationale, and 
thoughts formed by the brain with the emotions  
and sentiments formed around the heart and the 
erotically charged breasts. This middle placement  
of the neck makes it important in all matters of 
life. According to these cultures, a long neck  
represents balance and control. Long necks express 
vulnerability and prowess at the same time,  
as severing the neck would sever the 
connection between different aspects of life  
but adorning the neck and holding it high 
would represent success and prosperity. 
 
A long neck’s symbolization of wealth and 
beauty can also be related to its functionality.  
A long neck acts as the perfect display for 
jewelry such as necklaces. This expression  
ability of the neck with jewelry has 
been present for thousands of years,  
with evidence dating back to the Neanderthal 
species. Traditionally, men show off or flaunt  
their wealth by covering their women in gold 
and silver jewelry. In South Asian cultures,  
women wear several necklaces at the same time, to 
symbolize wealth and success. Having a long neck,  
in such cases, is preferred as it allows them 
to wear even more jewelry and ensures that  
everyone can see the different jewelry 
pieces around the neck, clearly. 
 
According to Harold Koda, a fashion curator and 
scholar from the Metropolitan Museum of Art,  
long necks became popular and are now 
associated with high standards of beauty,  
due to their ability to display and express 
fashion and style. A long neck allows women  
to look graceful, vulnerable, and stylish, all 
in one shot. The strong link between fashion and  
long necks is why it is a sought-after feature in 
models and actresses as it has the potential to  
advance their professional careers. And because 
most brands that are looking to advertise their  
jewelry and fashion pieces prefer models with long 
necks, all the general public sees on billboards,  
TV, and social media are women with long necks. 
This creates the illusion that long necks are the  
ideal neck size as they are so vastly represented 
in media. And that is not so far from the truth.

=== The Ideal Orthodontic Side Profile | What Makes A Face Attractive? ===
How your Facial Profile Affects your Aesthetics
In the world of Mirrors, selfies, two dimensional
portraits, and even the world of mirror selfies,
a large attentional bias towards the frontal
profile of an individual’s face has dominated
aesthetic trends.
But all too important in the overall evaluation
of a face is an individual’s appearance
from other angles, especially an individual’s
side profile.
The side profile of the face can best be described
as the typical jail mug shot from every crime
movie ever.
Including this one.
As we can see, the most prominent features
that define the side profile are the jawline,
chin protrusion, the height of the nose, an
individual’s hairline, and many other features
that would potentially be overlooked in traditional
analyses of beauty, such as eye brow socket
shape, upper lip height and even ear positioning
and shape.
Today we will focus on the extent of the effect
that deviations from a balanced facial side
profile have on reducing an individual’s
satisfaction with their facial appearance,
As well as looking at the more overall relationship
between an individual’s facial side profile
and their overall facial attractiveness.
Upon looking around the relevant literature
on the topic, it’s no surprise that there
is a range of research recognising the correlations
between facial features and an individual’s
satisfaction with their aesthetic.
For example, a Nigerian un iversity study
tracked specific elements of oral health,
including oral pain, ability to eat, and the
ability to speak and socialize without considerable
oral difficulty.
The researchers noticed a positive correlation
between oral health and quality of life, leading
the way for our research today.
A separate Japanese study looked further at
the notion of facial side profiling, recognising
that groups of adults from different races
have a fundamental variation that exists in
their craniofacial structure.
The implication of this study was, in their
own words, the need for an understanding that
a single standard of facial aesthetics is
not appropriate for application to diverse
racial and ethnic groups.
As such, when we look at the two papers up
for discussion today, we must be careful not
to make inferences that extend beyond the
ethnicities of the participants used in each
study.
Our first deeper look at facial side profiling
comes from a university paper by Manevska
and colleagues that defined what a typical
balanced facial side profile looks like.
The hypothesis of this paper was that as an
individual deviated from the normal balanced
facial side profile, as defined through previous
literature and normalised for a caucasian
population, they would have greater psychosocial
issues in their life.
As a sidetrack, I think the measure they used
to assess the individual’s psychosocial
issues within this paper is a profound piece
of literature in the facial aesthetics industry.
The Orthognathic Quality of Life Questionnaire
was developed in 2000 to estimate the quality
of life of patients who have been treated
with facial surgery, specifically, surgery
on their jaw.
When considering the purpose of cosmetic surgery
is to improve the quality of life of patients,
analysing data from this questionnaire becomes
an essential element in having a patient’s
best interest at hand.
The questionnaire, which has people answer
self-statements, assesses participant’s
satisfaction, concerns and awareness of their
own aesthetics.
When we pull this back into the context of
the current study, Manevska and colleagues
utilised the measure to see if social and
psychological issues were related to an individual’s
facial profile deviating from the norm, as
defined for caucasians.
But just what is the norm?
When we look towards this table, 3 main factors
are looked at when recognising normal side
proportions, the sagittal face and nose, the
Lips, and the vertical face.
Within the sagittal face factor, sagittal
referring to a side on view, we can see that
particular measurements referring to the overall
angle of the face, the angle of the face in
proportion to the nose, and the angle of the
nose itself are the dimensions considered.
When looking at the lip factor, elements like
the projection of the upper and lower lip
are used, and when looking at the vertical
face factor, the three thirds of the face
are measured.
Averages for each of these features are presented
on the right hand of the table, with numerals
representing degrees for angular measurements
and millimetres for length measurements.
As I always love to say, make sure you don’t
forget to subscribe to the QOVES channel if
you haven’t already, and leave us a like
and a comment on this video if you found it
informative.
After defining the norms of faces, 225 caucasian
subjects were sorted into 3 groups based on
their facial side profile.
The groups were one, a ‘concave’ profile,
defined by individuals who had a prominent
chin with retrusive teeth and lips, having
an overall dent within their face as seen
in these examples here.
The second group were those with balanced
features and as such had a ‘flat’ profile,
indicated by no specific outlier-features
on their face.
The third group, the ‘convex’ profile,
are those who have a relatively undeveloped
lower jaw or chin.
The effect of this undeveloped jaw is that
it makes the nose more prominent.
The overall facial shape of a convex profile
can be seen here, creating an overall ‘lump’
in the face as seen by the side profile.
Now, assessing the psychosocial factors associated
with these side profiles, it was found that
there were no significant differences between
men and women for their facial appearance
as a whole.
What was found however was that male respondents
with a concave profile were less satisfied
with their faces than those with a flat or
convex profile.
When the results are displayed graphically,
we can see that the overall satisfaction for
men is greatest when they have a convex profile,
whereas women have the greatest satisfaction
with a flat profile.
It was also found that women are most aware
of the facial aesthetic when they have a concave
profile, and that men have the greatest concern
about their facial aesthetic when they have
a concave profile.
More of the results from this graph are summarised
in the table here.
Psychosocial Factor
Male
Female
Greatest Satisfaction with face
Convex Profile*
Straight Profile*
Greatest Social Aspect
Straight Profile
Concave Profile
Biggest Facial aesthetic concern
Concave profile
Convex profile
Most awareness of facial aesthetic
Convex profile
Concave profile
* Differences are statistically negligible
Overall, the study found that deviation from
the norm of a balanced profile 
for some facial features can affect personal
perceptions and emotions, but not to a great
extent.
In other words, a facial side profile by itself
does not exert enough influence in most cases
to significantly affect an individual’s
satisfaction with their facial aesthetic.
But can it affect an individual’s objective
measure of attractiveness?
And how?
A study from the british Journal of orthodontics
assessed the relationship between the side
profile and facial appearance.
As the journal points out, variation in an
individual's side profile and their aesthetic
can depend on the aspect, the individual’s
facial expression, posture, lighting, growth,
ageing, and of course changes due to treatment.
Conclusions from the paper stated that as
an isolated reference, an individual’s side
profile is not sufficient as a judgement of
facial aesthetics.
However, the side profile may serve to predict
certain traits of beauty, including the proportions
of the nose, the upper and lower lips and
the soft tissue chin, which can affect the
overall balance of the face.
The paper suggests that instead, the best
predictor of an individual’s facial aesthetic
is the three-quarter face view, which can
accentuate an individual’s jawline and cheekbone.
So, for all 
you selfie lovers, perhaps you should listen
to the scientific research and start practicing
your pout at 
the three quarter face level to accentuate
your facial aesthetic.
Overall, the facial side profile is not as
influential as 
the frontal profile, and the gold standard
for influencing your facial aesthetic is the
three quarter face level.
However, the three main side profile types;
the 
concave profile, convex profile and flat profile,
all influence an individual's satisfaction
and awareness of their own aesthetic in different
ways.
With 
that being said, a facial side profile 
holds value as a predictor for specific features
on 
the face, as well as giving an 
inference into 
the balance 
and harmony of 
an individual’s face.

=== How Female Hairstyles Impact Your Physical Attractiveness | What Makes A Face Attractive ===
today's video is sponsored by
squarespace
sexual selection theory is the idea that
certain physical traits are seen as
attractive as they represent beneficial
qualities in an individual that can be
passed on to their offspring these
attractive physical traits influence
humans and animals to select certain
mates as they believe it gives their
offspring the best chance of survival we
could spend all our time looking at
primitive examples like the peacock's
tail in which a large size and brightly
colored plumage represents a male
peacock's overall fitness or we could
look at potentially more relevant
examples in facial aesthetics like the
idea that red cheeks indicate healthy
blood flow an indicator of good health
that could be then passed on to your
offspring or that a symmetrical face
indicates less developmental
imperfection and is also a good
indicator of health there are plenty of
indicators of genetic fitness and we've
looked at almost all of them on the
channel over the past two years but one
thing that we haven't really looked at
in detail is the idea of hair and
hairstyles the idea that well-maintained
long hair indicates wealth which is of
course beneficial to potential mate's
offspring
while we do know that the quality of
your hair such as your hair density
could be indicative of your genetic
fitness or your social status what we
don't know is how attractive is a
certain hairstyle versus another
today we're going to dive deeper into
how an individual's hairstyle can be a
message or a display of an individual's
phenotypical quality
in other words how do hairstyles
represent our genes such that we can
potentially give it to our offspring
mind you hairstyles are an example of
grooming adaptations we can change them
our children can have different
hairstyles to us but for some reason
they seem to indicate some type of
evolutionary benefit and so that's what
we're going to be looking at today
one such hungarian study from 2003
examined this studying the effects of
six different hairstyles relative to
faces without any hair to examine three
evolutionary hypotheses the first was
known as the covering hypothesis which
postulated that the function of hair in
relation to beauty is its ability to
accentuate or hide certain facial
features as sexual dimorphism is seen as
a highly attractive sexual selection
trait people may use their head hair to
hide or accentuate other characteristics
that are not particularly sexually
dimorphic or to accentuate the ones that
are
an example of this would be that short
hair may disclose particular hormonal
markers in a woman's face which may
increase attractiveness the opposite of
this would be women utilizing long hair
to conceal insecurities or factors of
their face that they're not too fond of
such as having a large forehead the
specific predictions for this hypothesis
are one that a short hairstyle will
increase the attractiveness of women
whose facial traits are judged highly
feminine or attractive by men and two
that long hairstyles are expected to
increase the attractiveness of women who
possess less feminine and more masculine
so higher testosterone dependent rates
now as i said before the hungarian study
focuses around the concept that raiders
judge the attractiveness of faces with
certain hairstyles relative to those
faces without hairstyles so in other
words the control do not have any
hairstyle as just to assess the face by
itself
the second hypothesis is known as the
healthy mate theory the theory pretty
self-explanatory it states that certain
traits can inform others of an
individual's actual pathogen load in
other words an idea of genetic fitness
to simplify a pathogen is any organism
that can cause disease so in this series
we're basically saying that certain
traits such as a certain sized nose or a
certain length of hair can alert a
partner of that person's susceptibility
to disease when we look specifically at
hair quality healthy mate theory would
postulate that attractive hairstyles are
attractive because they represent a lack
of external pathogens like lice or fleas
that could then harm a potential mate or
a potential mate's offspring it does
seem that a lot of this complicated
terminology has been used here but to
put it in simple terms you wouldn't be
too keen to go on a date with someone if
it looked like they had knits right so
with that in mind the specific
prediction for this hypothesis is that
unkempt disordered or disheveled hair or
decreased perceived facial
attractiveness pretty self-explanatory
the final hypothesis is the good genes
model we've spoken about this before it
states that attractiveness is meaningful
in human interactions because it simply
advertises good genes the two specific
predictions of this hypothesis is that
as a general rule longer hair on females
would be seen as more attractive
regardless of their individual's
attractiveness or facial features purely
because it signals better health so
hair is independent of your facial
attractiveness which if true could be a
very big thing the last prediction is
that an individual's length of hair is
associated with their health state
meaning that women with long hairstyles
will be consciously regarded as more
attractive than those with shorter hair
because it's harder to maintain longer
hair from a physiological perspective
so now that you've gotten all these
hypotheses and predictions down before
we get into it just take a moment to
like and subscribe to the channel and
we'll dig in
this study took 77 subjects from a
hungarian university so mind you we're
not looking at kinked or curled hair as
many arabian or african women do have we
will look at that in a second in a later
study but for now we're looking at a
straight hair more of a eurocentric or
caucasian-centric
perspective
the participants had a mean age of 22 so
they're all very physically healthy
there were photos taken of them and then
computer-based technology was used to
remove all of their hair and from here
dirty male raiders were presented with
photos of the female subjects without
any visible hair and were asked to rate
their facial attractiveness to get a
baseline of their face versus their hair
after this preliminary rating the 10
most attractive and 10 least attractive
faces were taken and morphed together
with the subject poor narrowed to 20
females and each subject was given an
artificial technological hair transplant
providing each participant with short
medium long disheveled hair in a knot
and unkempt hair and after this a
further 52 male raiders were presented
first the 20 basic faces with no hair
and then 120 ordered pictures of the 20
females with each of the six different
hairstyles right so they're taking all
the attractive the most attractive the
least attractive faces they're morphing
them together and they're giving them
all these different hairstyles versus a
control which has no hair for comparison
if you look at the ratings of the 20
chosen faces with no implanted hairstyle
so the control we're going to see that
the 10 most attractive faces have
significantly higher ratings of
femininity use health and sexiness
corresponding to significant f values
and probability values
in other words this isn't just a
statistical anomaly we're confirming
that the most attractive faces are
indeed the most attractive faces the
next table uncovers the differences for
a particular face when given a certain
hairstyle as we can see medium-length
hair significantly improves the
perceived femininity sexiness and health
of a particularly unattractive woman
when compared to no hair at all going
even further we can see that having long
hair results in even further
improvements when compared to
medium-length hair and similar results
occur for particularly attractive women
with medium and long hair being the best
predictors of an individual's health
femininity youth and sexiness so it
seems that hair does have a positive
effect but only for people in the lower
range of the attractiveness quartile
so from this study as we can see overall
long and medium length hair are related
to the highest ratings of facial
attractiveness while no hair and
short-haired disheveled hair and
uncamped hair
were predictors of the lowest facial
attractiveness looking at this figure we
can see that long hair improves
unattractive women the most where
compared to attractive women it's not
that big of a difference this may be why
we see certain attractive women being
able to break the rule and look
outstandingly beautiful with short hair
as the benefits of long hair are
diminished if you're already very
attractive this idea is confirmed to the
next figure in which we can see that the
relative peaks of attractiveness for
already attractive women shown by the
white bars are already high and don't
change considerably for each hairstyle
so in summary
the most attractive women can get away
with any hairstyle same as the most
attractive men because it doesn't make
much of a difference what they do their
greatest benefit is coming from their
facial attractiveness and the hair is
simply a supplement whereas for less
attractive women having medium to longer
length hair does indicate the idea of
genetic fitness and so it does boost
their attractness up but it does depend
i did cover this before in a previous
video but the likes of the women that
can actually pull off short hair like
ruby rose have incredibly masculine and
lean features which is why they can pull
off a more masculine hairstyle or
something that's more typically
associated with men such as shorter hair
because they just have the right
features so having a strong jaw having
defined cheeks are the prerequisites for
being able to pull off shorter hair
although you can pull off shorter hair
with more rounded features will just put
you into a different more gammon
aesthetic such as the likes of ed cedric
or audrey hepburn you can see in this
example of miley cyrus with shorter hair
she has more of a heart shaped face and
you can tell this by the point of your
chin and the angle of her jaw on how the
jaw inclination comes towards the chin
and it does work on her face but another
thing you need to keep in mind with
women who can pull off shorter hair is
the amount of fronto temporal recession
they have so we covered this in a
previous video and i recommend you look
at that but you want to generally have a
more juvenile hairline so there are many
many more prerequisites to being able to
pull off shorter hair for women than
there are for being able to pull off
longer hair and this is just due to the
heteronormative standards that we're
used to
here's the thing however longer hair is
in that gray zone between being a
eurocentric standard and being a
biological standard because in our east
and south asian beauty standards videos
we found that long dark hair is the
preferred norm for most women there
while these places are influenced by
global eurocentric beauty standards
they're not as heavily influenced as the
anglosphere itself so in that sense
straight hair could be considered a
biological standard because it's just
the norm that most people around the
world have however this does exclude a
large minority of african and arabian
women who have more curled coiled or
king tear however you wish to say it so
trying to achieve straight medium length
hair as we see in this research paper is
a not going to be the same for them and
b the process of hair straightening for
particularly african americans has a
very long and difficult history towards
it
from black women beauty and hair as a
matter of being by cheryl thompson 2009
traditional and natural killed african
hairstyles were deemed as unattractive
by europeans and were often derogatorily
referred to as wool rather than actual
hair
as such in an attempt to assimilate with
white culture many women straightened
their hair and this was seen as a symbol
of now joining the middle class so hair
actually had a socio-economic role early
african entrepreneurs such as cj walker
sold hair straightening products to
predominantly african women in an
attempt to leverage this new
socio-economic standard so essentially
hair is now a cultural standard rather
than simply a biological one
however the civil rights movements of
the later half of that century changed
ideas to rejecting white conformity of
hairstyles to appreciating the natural
hairstyles of curled hair quote a real
black person adorned a natural hairstyle
while those who straightened their hair
were deemed fake for attempting to
emulate a white aesthetic and an
unnatural black look
so what does all this mean well it means
that the research that we looked at
doesn't apply to everyone especially not
people with curled hair
in many workplaces having afrocentric
hair was indeed deemed as being less
professional and we still see the
effects of that today and so while we
can't exactly quantify what the ideal
curled hairstyle would be say dreadlocks
better than afros simply because of a
lack of research we can look at how
they're perceived by people in the
society
from the effect of hairstyles on the
perception of black women's personality
and earning potentials by pope and slay
we see that there is a small but still
circumstantial preference for curly hair
versus dreadlocks which are seen as less
professional and this trend was the case
by gender so men and women rating a
black woman for her competence based on
a hairstyle however we see differences
when comparing by race where black men
and women rate afros to be much more
competent in the workplace than say
dreadlocks or straight hair what's most
interesting to me is that even though
the previous research from 2004 the
hungarian paper
said that straight hair was the most
ideal this paper doesn't suggest that to
be the case for black women where
straight hair is less attractive
compared to say afros or curly hair or
even dreadlocks while black participants
rated the afroed hair as the most
competent in the workplace white
participants rated the afferent hair as
the least competent in reality it would
seem that the effect of straightening
hair for curled hair so for african
women who are straining their hair in
order to fit a certain agenda it doesn't
seem to work in their favor as the
history would suggest and as
contemporary research finds the best
hairstyle that's suited for your face is
the one that grows out naturally however
the answer isn't as simple as i'm making
it seem from their hair dilemma conform
to mainstream expectations or emphasize
racial identity by rosa and dumas the
right balance of femininity and
attractiveness can benefit a woman in
the workplace but traditional american
culture views black women as less
feminine and less attractive as well as
less intelligent competent and
dependable in their professional
positions than their white counterparts
awareness of these negative perceptions
causes black women to be especially
concerned about whether their hairstyle
promotes a professional image so while
the question of what the quote-unquote
ideal hairstyle would be for a caucasian
sample or an asian sample is quite easy
to answer in the anglosphere the reality
for their black counterparts is much
more culturally ingrained so this
wouldn't really be the video to tell you
what the ideal hairstyle is for black
women but the rules of hair density hair
lines and frontal temporal recession
still apply just like they do with all
women from our previous videos so in an
attempt to be more inclusive we've tried
to include curled hair but there just
isn't enough research and their answer
to it is much more like i said
culturally sensitive because there's
many confounding factors that science
just can't research from a laboratory
setting
if you've stayed till the end of this
video then i ask you to just stay
another 30 seconds to hear about the
sponsor of today's video squarespace you
may have heard about squarespace from
other channels but they give you a
powerful and beautiful online platform
from which to create your own website if
you're a content creator like me this is
very beneficial as they can take care of
the back end which allows you to connect
to your audience generate revenue
through members only content or leverage
your audience insights and manage email
campaigns all on the one platform also
they have plenty of ecommerce
capabilities through the use of
squarespace extensions which allows you
to bring in third-party tools to manage
inventory streamline bookkeeping and
market products go to squarespace.com
for a free trial and when you're ready
to launch go to squarespace slash crew
studio to save 10 on your first purchase
of a website or a domain
[Music]
[Music]
you

=== Frown Lines Are Ageing You, But There's A Fix ===
Frown lines are fine lines and wrinkles that
develop on your forehead, between your eyes,
and on your nose as time passes.
Frown lines are an apparent cosmetic problem
that not only affects the aesthetics of the
face but also the self-worth and esteem of
the person.
The presence of frown lines automatically
makes a person appear older than they actually
are.
This alteration in self-perception and perception
by others can take a toll on people’s mental
health, making frown lines a significant psychological
burden.
Frown lines give the face a constantly annoyed
or angry appearance which can limit one’s
social and personal life.
This adds to the psychological burden of frown
lines and is often the reason why people choose
to undergo invasive treatments to rid themselves
of frown lines.
Also known as the vertical elevens, frown
lines are the result of several factors working
together rather than one main etiological
factor.
These factors include:
* Aging: As one age, the skin loses elasticity
and its collagen content, which is important
for the structural integrity of the skin.
The loss of these components becomes visible
in the form of fine lines and wrinkles, which
are especially exaggerated in sun-exposed
areas and areas of repetitive muscle contraction.
* Sun exposure: UV rays have the same effect
on the skin as the aging process which is
why skin damage from sun exposure is referred
to as photodamage.
Constant sun exposure destroys the collagen
and elastin content of the skin, resulting
in fine lines, wrinkles, and eventually droopiness
of the skin.
* From Flament et al’s paper, sun exposure
was responsible for over 80% of the visible
ageing signs in a Caucasian sample.
Mind that in a previous video on skin colour
and sun exposure we mentioned that those higher
in melanin will be more tolerant of sun exposure
for ageing...
* Smoking: Nicotine and tobacco in cigarettes
result in the formation of fine lines and
wrinkles all over the face by constricting
blood vessels of the skin.
This decreases the oxygen supply of the skin
and makes it susceptible to damage from environmental
toxins.
From Facial Wrinkling in Men and Women, by
Smoking Status by Emster et al…
However the results arent as clear cut that
smoking is the direct cause of wrinkling.
Those who have never smoked in the male group
have almost the same amount of wrinkling as
heavy chain smokers in the 60-69 group, but
this is likely an outlier as for all other
groups, heavy smokers have the greatest severity
of wrinkling.
With the female group, this correlation is
far more linear and easier to see.
If I had to guess what may have caused this
outlier, men typically get more sun exposure
with a greater number of men participating
in manual labour work than women and so as
sun exposure is the real culprit of skin degradation,
smoking just slows down repair, the researchers
did not control for even levels of sun exposure
in each group.
* Stress: When we’re stressed, we release
a hormone called cortisol.
While this is normal for regular human functioning,
chronic exposure, in other words being stressed
all the time is detrimental to skin health.
From Cortisol Control and Beauty by Dr Shawn
Talbott, Cortisol is reported to have a destructive
effect on Collagen.
While Dr Talbott has written a plethora of
knowledge in his book, let’s keep it straight
to the point with Drielen et al’s study
finding an increase in perceived age correlated
with fasted cortisol levels.
While endocrinology is incredibly complex
and even the authors of this study acknowledge
that disentangling the effects of different
hormones is hard, it should be fairly intuitive
that chronic stress is bad for general health.
Constantly furrowing your eyes in anger is
a surefire way to embed frown lines into your
face.
* Facial expressions and repeated muscle use:
Squinting and frowning, along with expression
of anger and frustration requires the use
of the glabellar complex muscles.
This is supported by Hillebrand et al’s
2010 study which was taken over 8 years, finding
a predictive effect between those who persistently
use the same facial expressions and how those
form into defined wrinkles later on in life.They
also suggested that having a drier, more alkaline
and drier stratum corneum (in simple terms
having dry skin) with a lighter complexion
and being middle aged or menopausal speed
up the process
Although all of these factors work together
and result in the development of frown lines,
repeated use of the glabellar complex and
sun exposure dominate as the major cause over
the other risk factors.
Frown lines appear in several patterns and
can be of different types depending on exactly
which facial muscle is under the most strain
when forming facial expressions like frowning.
Frown lines appear on the forehead and space
between the eyes, known as the glabella.
They can either be horizontal, vertical, or
oblique and generally, appear in one of the
following five patterns:
* V-shaped Frown lines: This is the most common
pattern of frown lines as it affects approximately
37 percent of the affected individuals.
These frown lines pull the inner edge of eyebrows
inward resulting in frown lines that form
a V.
* U-shaped frown lines: This pattern is the
second most common pattern and involves elevation
of the outer eyebrow along with the features
of V-shaped frown lines.
* Converging arrows-shaped frown lines: This
pattern is seen when only the inside of the
brows are affected and come closer to each
other with facial expressions.
* Omega frown lines: This pattern includes
lowering of the outside of the eyebrows and
elevation of the inner side of the eyebrows.
* Inverted Omega frown lines: This pattern
is rarely seen and is commonly associated
with the flattened nasal shape.
The best way I can explain it is through this
meme
The diagnosis process is quite straightforward
as a simple examination of the frown lines
by a doctor is more than enough for the diagnosis
to be made.
When performing the physical examination,
the doctor will pay special attention to facial
anatomy and anatomy of facial expression,
as in which muscle is being contracted the
most with each expression.
This helps the doctor have a better understanding
of the frown lines and provides significant
clues about possible treatment methods.
Generally, frown lines can be treated using
topical agents or injectables, depending on
the depth of the facial lines and patient
preference.
There are also several homemade remedies in
the form of avocado masks, coconut oil massages
and so on that can be done in the early phases
of frown line development, however, there
is no scientific evidence backing up their
alleged benefits.
The topical agents that can treat frown lines
are available in lotion, gel, and creme form.
To ensure maximum results, it is recommended
to use topical agents with at least one of
the following ingredients:
* Hyaluronic Acid: It is a natural component
of the skin that decreases as time passes
and one age.
Topical use of this ingredient helps rejuvenate
the skin as hyaluronic acid is responsible
for the stimulation of collagen and elastin
synthesis along with hydration of the skin.
… but the effect isn’t as great as you
would expect, but it is better than nothing.
From Nobile Et al’s study on hyaluronic
efficacy…
Jegasothy’s study saw smaller molecule hyaluronic
acid being more effective with reported rates
of upto 40%
* Retinol: It is a form of Vitamin A with
significant anti-aging properties.
Using topical retinol has been associated
with increased collagen content and it does
so by promoting collagen synthesis at a genetic
level.
Retinol upregulates the genes responsible
for collagen production which reduces facial
lines and wrinkles significantly.
Unlike Tretinoin which is used in heavy duty
acne medication, and we did talk all about
this in this video, retinols have a lower
risk of skin redness and irritation which
makes them perfect for over the counter cosmetics.
From Fisher Et al 1996, Retinol was found
to inhibit UV intake, i.e. reducing photodamage,
while also stimulating collagen synthesis
through genetic stimulation.
* Niacinamide: Niacinamide or Vitamin B3 also
has anti-aging properties, along with anti-pruritic
and anti-inflammatory properties.
This ingredient is especially helpful in treating
frown lines that have developed as the result
of UV exposure and photodamage.
Niacinamide reverses the damage done by sunlight,
namely hyperpigmentation and wrinkles.
Niacinimide has been shown to improve fine
lines, but nothing substantial in the way
of heavy wrinkles like you would expect from
frown lines.
The injectable treatment of frown lines includes
the use of botulinum toxin type A or BOTOX
and dermal fillers containing hyaluronic acid,
collagen, hydroxylapatite, and Poly-L-lactic
acid.
BOTOX injections smoothen the skin by preventing
the overactive facial muscles from contracting
and straining the overlying skin.
Dermal fillers, on the other hand, reduce
frown lines by injecting components that promote
wound healing and repair the skin from 
the inside.
It 
is important to 
note 
that 
dermal 
fillers only last 
for approximately six months.

=== A Comprehensive Breakdown Of Every Nose Shape | Defining Beauty ===
In case you have the attention span of a 
goldfish, in this video we’re going to be  
into a lot of detail on nose shape aesthetics 
and surgical changes for African, Hispanic,  
East Asian, Middle Eastern, South Asian and 
Caucasian noses for both men and women. 
  
If you’ve seen our previous video on 
how climate influences your nose shape,  
then you’re likely aware that people of 
different ethnicities and geographical regions  
have different nose shapes. Part of this shape is 
a longstanding adaptation to the local climate to  
maximize airflow while minimizing irritation. But 
with the world being more globalized now than ever  
before, heterogeneous societies like the United 
States and the United Kingdom are made up of  
demographic minorities of African, Hispanic, 
South Asian and East Asian among others. 
  
It’s important to recognize the growing shift in 
cosmetic surgery demographics as improved economic  
factors allow minorities to have greater access 
to expensive, but purely cosmetic surgeries.  
Rhinoplasty, aka the reshaping of the nose is the 
most common of these surgeries and so while in the  
past surgeons have applied a more one-size fits 
all nose shape, white-washing the features into  
a typically Caucasian shape with greater nasal 
prominence, a narrower base and upturned tip,  
this has led to decreasing patient satisfaction 
over the years. Just look at Michael Jackson’s  
nose. With Michael being born to African descent, 
his facial features show phenotypic expressions of  
African features, especially the midfacial width, 
the facial-width-height ratio, the scleral show  
and most notably the very wide chin. Changing his 
skin colour to a pasty white (be it for vitiligo  
or other) doesn’t change his African features. 
Shortening his naturally wide nasal base to a  
sharp, upturned point seen only in people from the 
coldest of climates doesn’t change his dentofacial  
dimensions. A lot of this insecurity came from 
the shape of his nose as he had revealed in many  
later interviews and this insecurity is not 
uncommon in the African-American population  
who naturally have wide nasal bases and high 
fibrofatty tissue as a climatic adaptation to  
dry air. The issue isn’t in getting your nasal 
shape changed to be more comfortable in your body,  
but rather how your surgeon designs your 
rhinoplastic changes to suit your ethnic  
features. In Michael’s case, his surgery 
was when he was 21 to repair a broken nose,  
and the idea of nose shape planning by ethnicity 
was not big at the time. When you have a face  
as naturally wide as Michael’s having a thin and 
dainty nose greatly harms proportion and harmony.
  
The problem is that a lot of what you find 
beautiful is based on social acceptance. Many  
rhinoplastic patients do want a more Westernized 
nose because they live in the Anglosphere  
as a minority. Much of the neoclassical 
proportions that surgeons are taught  
were based on renaissance understandings of 
beauty which only suit a select few people,  
even among Europeans who these 
standards were developed in mind for.  
From Farkas’ revision of these canons, they were 
not well suited for the African face and nose.
  
Nowadays, surgeons and well QOVES Studio use 
anthropometric studies based on the target  
ethnicity itself, e.g. Middle Eastern values 
for a Middle Eastern subject, but these are the  
averages for an average looking population. The 
most attractive Middle Eastern face for example,  
would have features and values that surpass the 
average nasolabial angle, or nasofacial value  
which is what makes them above average in looks. 
So for many surgeons, a lot of it is guesswork  
and experience. If your surgeon doesn’t have a 
large portfolio of people who look similar to you,  
then you’re at a risk of getting a nose that 
doesn’t harmonize well with your ethnic features.  
Apart from cost, medical tourism, especially for 
rhinoplasties is popular because ethnic surgeons  
who share the same ethnicity as you and operate 
on people of your ethnicity in your ethnic region  
will have far more experience than someone who 
doesn’t. From Patel Et al’s paper, here is a good  
example of a good nose-job. East Asians typically 
have a very flat nasal bridge which is one of the  
features that Anthropologist Doug Jones mentioned 
as making their faces appear very neotenous or  
child-like. The surgeon here has augmented 
the nasal bridge and has developed a smooth,  
consistent line through the dorsum reducing 
the sharpness of the supra-tip break and  
supra-tip lobule. The nasal base appears to 
be left untouched, which is fine because it’s  
proportionally situated in-between her medial 
canthus and so if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.
  
Cobo’s 2017 paper actually devised 
a way to categorize the flatness of  
East Asian noses compared to the 
sharpness of Northern European ones. 
  
Platyrrhine noses are more common in those with 
African descent or South East Asians with small  
nasal bones, a low radix, wide dorsum, reduced 
tip support, decreased forward projection,  
lower nasolabial angles (i.e. the 
nose is more downward facing),  
and most characteristically, a wide nasal base.
Leptorrhine noses are more commonly seen in  
Caucasian patients and Patel Et al consider them 
to be the anatomical opposites of the Platyrrhine  
with a high radix, well developed bones, 
narrower dorsum and a well defined and  
projected tip. They also seem to naturally 
have some degree of rotation to them which  
some may consider unsightly as a deviated septum.
Mesorrhine noses are seen in Hispanic populations  
with features in between the Platy and 
Leptorrhine shapes. The tip is not as  
projected and the nasolabial angle is more acute 
meaning that the nose is more downturned with an  
intermediate amount of soft tissue thickness.
According to Cobo, the noses of the world belong  
to some combination of these three categories. 
Instead of assigning people by race or ethnicity,  
it may just be easier for surgeons to 
classify them by their nasal characteristics.
  
African American Noses
Let’s start off with the  
African American Nose. Baker Et al’s in 1984 
found that most African-Americans did not want  
their noses to be transformed into resembling 
Caucasian nose shapes, and the most common  
reasons for wanting a rhinoplasty were that they 
believed their noses to be too broad or wide. 
  
As a result Rohrich and Muzaffar’s study 
on African patients had defined 5 goals  
for ethnicity specific rhinoplasty:
* Maintaining nasofacial proportions
  
* Ensuring a narrower and straighter dorsum
* Enhancing tip projection and definition
  
* Controlling alar flaring
* Narrowing interalar  
distance (shorter nasal base)
One of these challenges is improving  
tip projection, which is typically flat due to 
African noses having more fibrofatty tissue than  
Caucasian noses. However, Rohrich’s study 
among others has shown that underneath this  
fatty tissue, the structure of the African nose 
is actually quite similar to the Caucasian nose  
in terms of structural integrity, cartilage 
strength and cartilage distances.
  
But while the noses may have similarities, 
African dentofacial features are very different,  
with a higher percentage of African’s developing 
bimaxillary protrusion. This gives the chin  
a retruded look as the upper jaw, or the maxilla, 
protrudes forwards and makes the nose appear even  
flatter. We’ve covered this in depth in this 
video going over the statistics of how often  
it occurs and how it affects aesthetics using 
Michael B. Jordan in this celebrity analysis.What  
Patel et al’s paper suggests is that in these 
cases, chin augmentation may yield greater  
aesthetic gains rather than fiddling around with 
the nasal projection. This is because we evaluate  
the face as a whole, especially in the side 
profile, and so if the chin is heavily retruded  
or there is some dentofacial anomaly, then that 
will draw our attention away from the nose.
  
Another concern that African patients have is that 
their nose is too wide, flaring their nostrils  
to noticeably large sizes. Flared nostrils are 
often corrected because they’re less common  
and thus more unusual and noticeable but the width 
of the African nasal base is quite normal and in  
similar proportions to noses of other ethnicities. 
African faces are wider and so the nasal features  
are also stretched out further too. Most nose 
shapes follow a 1:1 ratio between nasal width  
and intercanthal width, but Porter and colleagues 
suggests a ratio of 1:1.25 to 1.3 for African  
faces as their nasal bases are wider. At QOVES, 
we still recommend the 1:1 ratio because Porter’s  
study takes the average of a sample population 
of average looking people. Attractive African  
models and celebrities have slightly smaller nasal 
widths than the average at 1:1 ratios and so an  
alar resection may be needed.
Hispanic Noses
  
This refers to spanish speaking people of 
Mestizo or Latin origins and this group has seen  
a lot of diversity from European and Indigienous 
descendants. The Mestizo literally means a mixture  
of races and Roxana Cobo 2010 indicates that 
they share features from European, African and  
Indian noses. Similar to the African nose, they 
have a thicker soft tissue evelope, with wider  
but shorter nasal bones with a less projected but 
rotated tip.They also have a wider nasal base but  
not as wide as African noses. Hispanic faces in 
general have sharper malar eminences (cheekbones),  
with a more acute nasolabial angle (downturned 
nose), the base is typically wider than the  
intercanthal width and greater midface protrusion 
with a weaker lower third. This last dentofacial  
feature of midface protrusion emphasises the 
aquiline shape of the nose more greatly which some  
love and others absolutely hate as making their 
face appear bird-like. Hispanic noses also have a  
slight to moderate dorsal hump, or the hump could 
just be due to the plunging curvature of the nose  
and not an actual bony bump like with other nose 
types, regardless, most get rhinoplastic surgery  
to straighten the nose. Of the hispanic noses, 
there are 3 groups and as you can see the Hispanic  
features are a mix and not noticeably distinct.
Carribeans - Noses similar to Africans
  
Central American - Noses similar to Caucasians
South American - Noses similar to Caucasians
  
For a lot of anthropological studies researchers 
often use African, East Asian and Caucasian  
features because the rest of the world falls 
into a mix of these 3 diverse morphologies. As  
the major concern for hispanic 
noses is regarding the dorsal hump,  
a good surgeon should be able to identify 
whether there really is a hump to flatten  
or if it is due to the nose lacking forward 
protrusion and instead plunging downwards.
  
East Asian Noses
East Asian noses are unique and  
have been broadly classified as mesorrhine being 
a mix of flat and sharp features very similarly to  
hispanic faces. East Asian noses on average have 
a wider nasal base than Caucasians with greater  
nose flaring but as Rhee 2017 found, the standards 
are different for Attractive Asian faces where the  
intercanthal distance for attractive Caucasian 
faces is similar to the interalar distance for  
attractive East Asian faces. Meaning that your 
nasal width should sit comfortably in between  
the inner corner of your eyes, otherwise it 
throws off harmony and becomes overly salient. 
  
One notable differentiator of East Asian noses 
is that they have a remarkably flat nasal bridge  
making the face seem juvenile as children 
share the same trait. Rhinoplastic surgery  
for these noses is often about increasing 
bridge prominence to make the face seem more  
adult. Aung and Colleagues put these noses into 
3 groups: Bulbous Tip, Better Defined Tip and  
Defined Tip with over 80% of Asian noses being in 
the first 2 categories. East Asian noses also have  
a gentle contour throughout unlike Caucasian faces 
which have a defined ridge at the supratip break,  
and so corrective surgery can either keep this 
contour or remove it as some may feel that it  
makes their nose more snout-like than graceful. 
As we covered in our East Asian beauty standards  
(yes I know Lisa is Thai, Ive explained why 
she's there many times), many women especially  
opt for a narrower nasal base while increasing 
nasal tip prominence and maintaining the gentle  
curve that is ethnically seen on attractive Asian 
faces. This isn’t a mimicry of westernizing their  
noses but rather a beauty standard that developed 
independently from the west since the late 1800s. 
Middle Eastern Noses
 
From Rohrich et al, Middle Eastern noses  
have thicker skin than usual and the healing 
process can be more unpredictable. The nasal  
dorsum is characteristically wider, often with a 
dorsal hump which is what most opt to get removed  
in their rhinoplasty. The nasal tip is generally 
more bulbous resulting in an underprojected and  
under rotated tip with an acute nasolabial angle, 
i.e. downward facing nose and often a plunging  
nasal tip. This also gives the impression of 
increased nasal length which is masculinizing,  
especially on women. The nasal base width is often 
greater than that seen on Caucasians with greater  
alar flaring present. Middle Eastern noses also 
exhibit unusually higher rates of asymmetry with  
Rohrich and Mohan finding it in 82% of patients. 
This unusually high rate of asymmetry makes  
asymmetry correction and dorsal hump reduction 
the primary goals of Middle Eastern patients.  
Niechajev’s study characterized the Egyptian nose 
with wide nostrils, a sharp nasolabial angle,  
a broad and rounded nasal tip and wide dorsum. On 
the other hand, Levantine noses were narrower but  
more arched with a notable dorsal hump and 
fine nasal tip. The Turkish nose also had a  
plunging tip with inadequate projection but with 
a wider nasal profile and prominent dorsal hump.  
Assyrian noses were on average larger than 
the other groups with broad nasal tips  
but more upturned nasolabial angles. Kurds and 
Iraqi’s had similar features but with thicker  
skin and the Iranians had more crooked noses but 
with thinner skin. For many female Middle Eastern  
patients, the goal is to improve femininity 
by reducing masculine nasal characteristics  
such as a large nose or plunging nasal tip and for 
men, reducing asymmetries or deviating septums. 
South Asian Noses
 
Lastly, south asian noses. This video is very long  
but we have covered south Asian noses multiple 
times in much more detail here. South Asian noses  
were similar to Caucasian noses for one half of 
the population and closer to Middle Eastern noses  
for the other half. Characteristically, many had 
a plunging tip and prominent dorsum, but this is  
very similar to the Middle Eastern features. This 
rhinoplasty patient has a notable supratip break,  
like you expect to see on a Caucasian nose with 
quite a minimal dorsal hump, so in many ways  
South Asian features are a mix of Caucasian and 
Middle Eastern. Unlike most Caucasians however,  
the nose tip is often more blunt than sharp and 
pointy which some opt to get changed like here.
  
I recommend you watch South Asian beauty 
standards where this has already been covered,  
and if you're Caucasian, then watch this video 
where Caucasian noses were covered in great depth  
going over all of the nasal angles too.
There you have it, if you want to learn more  
about your nose, or get a in depth consultation 
from our medical team or in-house plastic surgeon  
on what type of nose you have, your options, 
Photoshop morphs and what to look for, then  
order a QOVES Aesthetics report with 24 pages of 
anthropometric assessment of your facial features  
or request an online consultation with one of 
our Doctors about a specific area of concern.

=== What Makes A Hand Attractive? | Defining Beauty ===
﻿Hand Aesthetics
Even a cursory search of  
articles on the top 5 or top 10 physical traits 
rated as most important preferred by women shows  
hands to be surprisingly important. Moreover, 
articles often list healthy hand hygiene as  
being an important way by which one can make 
oneself more attractive. Hand beautification,  
including rings, bracelets, nail varnishing, 
and more recently hand skin rejuvenating with  
medicine and even cosmetic surgery stress the 
cultural importance of hand appearance (Etcoff  
1999; Morris 2004; Saino et al. 2006; Jakubietz et 
al. 2008). This importance may be relatively large  
in moderate or cold climates where hands, after 
the face, are the second most visible body parts.  
However, these techniques are mainly employed by 
women, leaving us with the question of why hand  
appearance is important for men, as well as women. 
Here, we suggest three reasons why hands might be  
considered an important marker of genetic quality 
in men. These are: vascularity - the prominence  
of the veins, hand proportions, including finger 
length and symmetry, and, most interestingly,  
the 2D:4D ratio, which is the difference between 
the second and fourth digits (the first finger  
and the ring finger).
Vascularity
 
Let’s begin with vascularity. 
In a recent video, we looked at  
the YouTube celebrity, Corpse’s, hands, which I 
think we rightly described as a ‘thirst trap’,  
as it seemed to give his audience the impression 
of physical attractiveness. The first thing we  
notice about his hands is the vascularity. 
The question of why the female gaze finds  
this attractive is interesting. For one, vein 
prominence in any part of the body, particularly  
on the calves, thighs, biceps, forearms, 
and indeed hands tends to indicate strength.  
As any gym bros in my audience will be fully 
aware, a person’s muscles swell when working out,  
and the swelling in the muscles pushes the veins 
to the surface, making them more pronounced.  
However, this is particularly pronounced 
when there is a lack of subcutaneous fat,  
which is arguably one of the most important beauty 
standards in men. You never see a man’s beauty  
being praised due to his ‘curviness’, for example, 
only his angularity, or sharpness, and strength.  
There are two reasons vascularity in hands may be 
particularly prized. The first is that one cannot  
as easily improve the appearance of one’s hands in 
the same way that one can do for biceps or legs,  
for example. It may therefore be an honest 
signal of natural or genetic strength that acts  
independently of the environment. Secondly, it may 
act as an indication of hand-grip strength, which  
is one of the best biomarkers of cardiovascular 
and general health, which in turn is an indication  
of genetic quality. When asked, the reasons 
women tend to give for a strong-looking hand  
is that they can imagine men using them to protect 
them, and in doing so make them feel secure and  
cared for. This is evidenced by an admittedly 
non-academic poll on bodybuilding.com, in which  
over 70% of women saying they had a slight or 
strong preference for vascularity in men. 
 
It also makes sense when we turn to academic 
literature. The fitness indicator hypothesis  
suggests that exaggerated secondary sexual 
characteristics i.e. sexual traits which are  
used to attract partners but are not necessarily 
used in the act of procreation in and of itself,  
are cues of genes that increase reproductive 
success. In six studies, the hypothesis that  
muscularity is one such cue was tested by 
Frederick and Haselton, of the University of  
California. As predicted, women rate muscular men 
as sexier, more physically dominant and volatile,  
and less committed to their mates than 
non-muscular men. It was consistent with  
the inverted-U hypothesis of masculine traits, 
however, suggesting that only a moderate amount  
of muscularity was preferred. This suggests 
something deeper than muscularity=attractiveness,  
the potential reason for this being that 
women want honest signals of genetic quality,  
rather than brute force. Women therefore 
seem to want muscularity consistent with  
what it indicates, rather than what it brings 
practically, to the extent that, ironically,  
too much muscle can be a put-off, as it may 
be a dishonest indicator of genetic quality.  
This brings us neatly back to hands; one 
cannot fake or improve hand-grip strength.  
Handgrip strength is a noninvasive measure of 
physical health that is negatively correlated  
with disability, morbidity, and mortality rates in 
adults. It is also highly heritable, showing that  
there are many genes indicated in its presence, 
and it is also indicative of handgrip strength of  
blood testosterone levels and levels of fat-free 
body mass, primarily bone density and muscle mass.  
A particularly interesting study by Gallup et 
al., investigated whether handgrip strength  
was related to measures of body morphology 
[such as shoulder-to-hip ratio, waist-to-hip  
ratio, and second-digit-to-fourth-digit ratio 
(2D:4D)], aggressive behavior, and sexual history  
in 82 male and 61 female college students. Results 
showed that handgrip strength was correlated with  
shoulder-to-hip ratio, aggressive behavior, age 
at first sexual intercourse, and promiscuity in  
males but not in females. It therefore appears to 
be an honest signal for genetic quality in males,  
which suggests why vascular hands might be 
seen to be particularly attractive to some,  
but not all, women.
2D:4D ratio
 
The second attractive trait on hands is a low 
2D:4D ratio. The ratio between the length of  
the 2nd and 4th digit (2D:4D) is sexually 
dimorphic, with mean male 2D:4D lower than  
mean female 2D:4D. That is, in men the 4th digit, 
or the ring finger, is longer than the second  
digit, or the first finger, and in women it is 
generally the other way around. This is because  
2D:4D is negatively correlated with prenatal 
testosterone and positively correlated with  
prenatal oestrogen. This is because the same genes 
which control testes or ovary growth, the Homeobox  
and Hox genes, also control the growth of fingers. 
When this gene is removed, it results in a loss of  
both digits and fertility or gonadal function, 
according to Kondo et al. 1997. Other studies  
have shown that male faces with extreme features 
associated with testosterone are perceived as  
dominant and masculine. Women have been reported 
to prefer more masculinized male faces as they may  
consider testosterone markers to be an ‘honest’ 
indication of good health, and such considerations  
may underlie their aesthetic preferences. 
However, pronounced testosterone facial  
markers are also associated with dominance, 
and several anti-social personality traits.  
This suggests that female aesthetic preferences 
may be an adaptive compromise between positive  
attributes associated with higher than aver- 
age testosterone, and attributes associated  
with more extreme masculinization, such as 
extreme systematising and lack of empathy  
(autism) at the mild end and more negative traits, 
such ‘dark triad traits, such as machiavellianism,  
narcissism, and psychopathy. See our video on 
the aesthetics of those with ‘Dark Triad’ traits  
for more information on this. It’s important to 
note that, even though women generally find men  
with such masculinised traits more attractive, 
they may not necessarily choose them as long-term  
sexual partners, due to their association with the 
Dark Triad traits discussed above. The character  
of Jame Bond, at least before No Time To 
Die, is famously incompetent at maintaining  
long term relationships for this reason.
If 2D:4D ratio is associated with high  
testosterone, and thus high masculinity, we 
would expect women to find hands with a lower  
2D:4D ratio to be more attractive, and indeed we 
do. A study by Saino et al., found that that men  
avoided opposite-sex right hands manipulated as 
to look more masculine i.e., with a shortened 2D,  
while females preferred males’ hands with 
more masculine shape, i.e., with elongated 4D.  
They used the same hand image, but digitally 
manipulated the finger length to ensure that  
the experiment was controlled i.e. that no other 
variables impacted the subject’s judgements. These  
results suggest that women prefer males who have 
been masculinized prenatally. In an evolutionary  
perspective, women may have been selected to 
prefer a minimum threshold of masculinisation,  
as the ability to withstand testosterone, which 
can cause deformities, during growth demonstrates  
high genetic fitness.
Proportion
 
Finally, we turn to proportion. As we’ve 
talked about many times on this channel,  
facial and bodily symmetry is probably the 
foremost indicator of attractiveness, and,  
apparently (I was surprised to hear this!), it 
extends to hands. According to Dane (2009), there  
is a correlation between hand, feet, and face 
symmetry and attractiveness, and indeed bodily and  
facial attractiveness in general, suggesting that 
there exists a common underlying factor between  
them, and this factor is usually the biological 
quality of an individual (Candolin 2003). In a  
later study by Kościński (2011), it was found that 
facial attractiveness showed correlation with hand  
attractiveness in both sexes, but particularly in 
men, with correlations ranging from 0.32 to 0.38  
for men, and 0.21 to 0.28 for women. They also 
found significant correlations between perceived  
averageness, a sign of low genetic mutational 
load (0.23), of the hand and face in men,  
whereas there was no significant correlation for 
women. Furthermore, the fattiness of the hand of  
the face had a 0.38 correlation in men, compared 
to only 0.23 in women, suggesting the relatively  
high importance of hand attractiveness 
for men as compared with women. 
 
Hand ‘femininity’ was also seen to be important 
for both sexes, interesting. Hand femininity was  
defined by the slenderness of the hand and 
the length of the fingers. Up to a point,  
more feminine hands were actually preferred in 
men on average. Kościński hypothesised that a  
hand with feminine (i.e., slender) shape may 
be a signal of not only biological quality  
but also socioeconomic status. People descending 
from families of high socioeconomic status have  
been shown to have a more slender body (Sundquist 
and Johansson 1998; Meyer and Selmer 1999) and  
thus may also have more slender hands. Slender 
hands with long fingers are perceived as shapely  
and gallant (Jakubietz RG et al. 2005), used 
for playing instruments like the violin or piano  
rather than hard physical labour 
(Wagner 1988; Manning 2008). 
 
So, let us conclude with a fitting 
quote from SofiaGrey.com: [maybe  
develop to make joviality more clear]
The hands of a man will do many things. They  
provide comfort. They provide strength. They 
provide pleasure. They provide protection. They  
provide tenderness. They provide a life.
Proof, if ever we needed any.  
Hands are important.
Image Appendices
 
A1
  
 
A2
  
 
A3
  
 
A4
  
 
A5
  
 
A6
  
A7
  
 
A8
  
 
A9
  
A10

=== How Side Sleeping Is Giving You Premature Wrinkling | Sleep Wrinkles ===
wrinkles are a normal part of aging and
are inevitable usually facial
expressions such as smiling laughing and
eye squinting are associated with
wrinkle formation but there are certain
habits that can make you more prone to
early wrinkle formation for instance you
are more prone to developing wrinkles if
you are a sleep face squisher which
means that you push your face against
your pillow when sleeping on your side
thereby effectively squashing the skin
on your face to such an extent that
lines begin to form with time and
repeated pressure on the skin these
lines can evolve to form permanent
wrinkles there is a specific term used
to describe these wrinkles resulting
from skin buckling during sleep and
they're called whilst unsurprisingly
sleep wrinkles although sleep wrinkles
have been rarely heard of the concept of
these wrinkles have been around for a
very long time
in 1999 fulton natal had proposed that
sleep positions and the site of
superficial musculoaponeurotic system
condensation may be responsible for
these sleep wrinkles developing in his
paper fulton had also described the most
common areas that these wrinkles could
develop and most of it centers around
the crow's feet wrinkle area
even before fulton in 1987 dr stegman
had published a paper on steep creases
and postulated that sleep creases were
less noticeable after a few nights of
sleep in which the subject's face was
not pushed against a pillow
so what exactly are sleep wrinkles sleep
wrinkles are lines that develop as a
result of any facial distortion that
occurs when you push your face against a
surface while asleep if you sleep on
your side or on your stomach the
compressive forces on your face are more
likely to cause facial distortion in
younger people these lines are only
transient and disappear after a few
minutes of waking up but as you age the
skin loses its elasticity and collagen
does start to deplete making older
people more likely to develop permanent
sleep wrinkles a literature review on
the relationship between skin and
external mechanical forces has
demonstrated that external loading
forces on the skin can signal the skin
to undergo biomechanical changes at both
epidermal and dermal levels as per
hildebrand atal many factors play a role
in the development of early wrinkles
such as the age of onset rate of
persistent facial wrinkles the
cumulative amount of mechanical stress
and reduced skin elasticity due to
cumulative harmful environmental
influences such as sun exposure smoking
the usual ones during sleep the skin is
pulled and stretched in different
directions with each change in sleep
position
especially when a person sleeps on their
side or on their stomach the face is
subject to various mechanical forces
that pull on your skin and those forces
are going to leave their mark as you get
older
when you sleep on your back you are
least likely to develop these wrinkles
however deciding to sleep on your back
to avoid sleep wrinkles is easier said
than done on average people shift their
sleep positions at least 20 times per
night and of all the sleep positions
sleeping on the side is the most common
position with more than 65 percent of
people spending a majority of the sleep
time in this lateral position sleeping
on the back may be aesthetically
beneficial but it may aggravate certain
conditions such as sleep apnea snoring
or gastric reflux
sleep wrinkles predominantly appear to
occur at areas where the skin can easily
distort when external forces are applied
wrinkles attributed to facial expression
can be further reinforced by sleep
although a wrinkle may initially occur
due to forces of expression any
compressive forces can further worsen
the depth of the wrinkle
compressive forces on the face can
accelerate the rate by which these
temporary lines of facial expression
such as say when you're smiling you get
your nasolabial lines start to form
these lines can start to become
permanent lines due to those compressive
forces as you sleep other factors such
as smoking or sun exposure and genetics
can also accelerate the process of these
formations
expression-induced wrinkles have
treatment options that have been
extensively studied such as botox there
are fewer studies and treatment options
when it comes to sleep wrinkles
theoretically face tightening procedures
such as a face lift could potentially
prevent sleep wrinkles by minimizing the
amount of skin that could actually
buckle under your compressive force
alternatively fillers could provide a
temporary improvement in the appearance
of wrinkles and neurotoxins such as
botox may also be tried to prevent the
formation of these wrinkles because if
they work for one type of wrinkle maybe
they work for sleep wrinkles as well
however the best alternative the best is
just to prevent this from happening in
the first place and really the only safe
and reliable method of preventing sleep
wrinkles from forming or even worsening
is by preventing the incitation that
causes these sleep wrinkles which is by
preventing your face from being
distorted while you sleep
it would make sense then to just sleep
on your back but like we said most
people can't do that so the second best
option is to use a pillow that's
specifically designed for the prevention
of sleep wrinkles by minimizing the
distortion of facial skin with these
pillows the mechanical stress on the
sites that are most susceptible to sleep
wrinkles can be redistributed which can
both prevent and slow down the process
of these sleep wrinkle formations mind
you that the product i'm going to
recommend is a sponsored segment but
it's surprisingly comfortable and
intuitive
the omnia pillow designed by sleep and
glow was created as a collaboration
between medical and aesthetic
professionals and it uses meticulously
engineered zones and dimensions of that
pillow to provide a cosmetic advantage
by preventing early sleep wrinkle
formation most characteristically it
features a face cradle basically that
minimizes the shearing force that's
applied on your skin while also
providing an increased amount of contact
surface between your skin and the pillow
which also reduces the amount of point
force that's applying on your skin and
redistributes that force over a larger
surface area they did send me a version
to try and i personally like my pillows
quite hard so it's a very easy
adjustment for me as they do use memory
foam in these pillows but for others you
might want to try one of the
alternatives on the website other than
the omnia pillow which is what i got and
they do use memory foam which does take
some time to break in
personally i really like that it comes
with a satin pillow case because on top
of just avoiding putting pressure on the
sensitive facial regions like the crow's
feet region in this example a
frictionless pillow case like a satin
one reduces the chances of your skin
tugging on it which reduces shear which
also reduces buckling of the skin and
that's just an added layer of protection
satin materials as opposed to a thick
cotton or fibrous pillow case it doesn't
absorb your face's natural oils or
nightly skin products as readily and so
this is just some general advice that if
you can't afford a specialized pillow
for your face consider changing your
pillow cover to a satin or a silk
alternative for the price i think you're
getting quite fair value with this
pillow especially when you consider that
this is something that you're going to
use nightly for quite literally the rest
of your life they claim that it lasts
for five years but i obviously hadn't
had mine long enough to test that
overall i rarely accept sponsorship
deals on this channel especially with
beauty products because people on the
channel do take my recommendation
seriously and i appreciate that my
philosophy with anything bed related is
that it's worth spending more for
something that you're going to use for a
third of your lifespan higher quality
mattresses nicer sheets and better
pillows are all things i consider worthy
purchases while there are competing
memory foam pillows with competing
designs and competing price points i do
see sleeping glows pillow this
particular one as the luxury variant of
this niche and with that you get a nicer
product which again is well worth to
spend if i'm spending eight hours a day
on end if you would like to check out
their site you can use the link in the
description below it doesn't cost you
any extra it just makes us look better
in the eyes of the sponsor
so there you have it that's a surface
level breakdown on sleep wrinkles it
does go a bit deeper than that but the
general ideology and the causes of these
wrinkles are very much the same
mechanical forces caused by rubbing
against your pillow does lead to deeper
and deeper wrinkle creases and fine
lines appearing if you want to know more
about sleep wrinkles and just a really
candid talk that i had with another
content creator jc the catalyst he makes
very similar videos to what we do on
curves but on tick tock in 30 second
segments that interview is up on our
patreon i recommend you go see it it's
free we talk about sleep wrinkles and
collagen supplements and all this other
stuff it's kind of like things you don't
really think about but if you're gonna
start doing them then you might as well
just start early because prevention is
the best cure to any type of wrinkles or
aesthetic related concern that you might
have when you're 40 or 50 and you know
you start getting older so it talks more
about my routine what i believe are
important what he thinks are important
in you know a young man or a young
woman's routine in our demographic so
it's a very good listen and i suggest
you listen to that and as always if
you're interested in the sponsor's
products the omnia pillow and i suggest
that you go check them out use the link
in the description and if it's out of
your price range then so be it but i
think it's a worthy investment and
something you can consider as one of
those preventatives you know those
things that you add to your routine
early on and just don't really think
about again until you're 40. because how
good you look in your 40s is very very
much determined by the sacrifices that
you make in your 20s famously quoted by
coco chanel yes that chanel nature gives
you the face that you have at 20 life
shapes the face that you will have at 30
but at 50 you get the face that you
deserve
[Music]

=== How Genetics Influence The Way You Skin Ages | Defining Beauty ===
﻿The Role of Genetics in Skin Aesthetics
The qualities that define an aesthetically  
pleasant skin are universal, and are similar to 
the qualities of healthy skin. Healthy skin is  
defined as one that has no or few imperfections, 
is not too dry or too oily, has minimally visible  
pores, and an overall radiant complexion. 
Many try their best to achieve a healthy  
skin using expensive skin care products.
This has caused the industry for skin care  
products to become a multi-billion dollar 
thriving business, with endless choices  
for every skin care product ranging from face 
washes to skin serums. But to the dismay of many,  
buying the most expensive products for your 
skin, and using them regularly and religiously  
often does not give the desired results. This is 
because there are other important factors at play  
that are responsible for healthy skin such 
as your genetics and lifestyle choices. 
 
There is a specific group of people who have the 
most healthy and almost perfect skin, and it is  
newborns and children who fall under this group. 
The reason behind their vibrant flawless skin is  
because their skin has not yet been subjected 
to years of sun damage, hormonal acne, harmful  
chemicals, mechanical trauma, and environmental 
toxins. As people grow older, their skin changes  
in appearance, developing wrinkles, sun spots, 
and losing collagen. But not all people and  
their skin respond equally to the same adverse 
agents. What could be the reason for this?
 
It is well known that genes determine the 
skin color, skin thickness, and skin type.  
But genes have a bigger role than this. A study on 
same-sex twins dertermined that genetics influence  
up to 62% of the variation in skin aging, while 
the rest 40% are attributed to other non-genetic  
factors. The most important non-genetic factors 
negatively influencing skin aging are sun  
exposure and smoking. Researchers have directly 
documented the effects of both smoking and sun  
exposure on skin morphology and deterioration 
with age. Sex and ethnicity both provide some  
obvious evidence of genetic influence on skin. 
Asian skin tends to wrinkle at an older age,  
by almost 10 years in comparison to Caucasian 
skin, as per a study by Makrantonaki et al.
 
But, the most obvious difference attributable 
to genetic variability is the patterns of skin  
pigmentation, which can vary based on a person’s 
ethnicity. African-Americans have high levels of  
skin pigmentation, which has a protective effect 
from skin damage as a result of sun exposure.  
Robinson et al discovered that sun-exposed 
areas and unexposed areas of skin showed  
minimal difference in skin structure and aging 
related changes in African-Americans. 
 
This finding was in stark contrast with the 
response of Caucasian skin to sun exposure.  
Caucasians showed significant differences in skin 
elasticity, and sun induced damage when comparing  
sun-exposed sites to unexposed sites. North 
European skin tones of Caucasian skin falls under  
skin type I as per the Fitzpatrick classification, 
that is to say when exposed to sunlight,  
the skin burns, and does not tan. Therefore, 
they are more prone to not just sun damage,  
but also skin cancers as they lack the protective 
benefits of melanin against UV rays.   
 
The presence or absence of chromosome Y is 
what determines gender. Apart from sexual  
characteristics, this genetic difference also 
has a direct influence on skin response to  
oxidative stress from sun exposure.Oblong et al 
discovered that the male skin is far more prone  
to damage from UV induced skin damage and other 
environmental insults.Massudi et al also found  
differences in DNA damage, oxidative potential 
and overall skin damage between males and females,  
with males responding more adversely to 
environmental stressors than females.
 
Researchers are now shifting their focus 
on the correlation between gene mutations  
and common skin disorders such as skin 
atrophy, alopecia, telangiectasia, sclerosis,  
and skin malignancies. A study found that changes 
in gene expression and mutation was similar in  
patients with Werner syndrome and normal skin 
aging. This corresponds with the assumption  
that variations and mutations in genes determine 
skin aging and response to oxidative stress. 
 
Furthermore, mutations in genes that regulate 
growth hormone and pituitary hormones can increase  
the likelihood of early skin aging such as wrinkle 
formation and skin dehydration. Naval et al  
identified 13 Single nucleotide polymorphisms 
in genes that code for proteins important in  
determining skin’s response to oxidative stress, 
and changes with aging in skin elasticity and  
skin hydration. As per their findings, the 
cluster 8 of gene variants showed increased  
susceptibility to oxidative stress owing to weak 
versions of antioxidant genes. On the other hand,  
cluster 10 demonstrated good genetic activity 
against oxidative stress to skin. The study  
findings implicate that those belonging to cluster 
8 require more concentrations of antioxidants in  
their cosmetic products as compared to cluster 
10. This suggestion by the researchers was aimed  
not just to enhance protection for cluster 
8 but also to limit the damage that excess  
antioxidants may have on cluster 10.
Genomic analysis can be a useful tool  
to characterize human skin, and needs for 
anti-aging products. This could allow skin care  
to be individualized based on a person’s genes. 
As genotypic services become more affordable  
and easily available, analyzing genes to 
develop individualized skin care plans  
could be a viable option in the future. 
Genetic variations are responsible for the  
unique characteristics of each individual, and 
may be an important determining factor in the  
future for all clinical and pharmacologic 
interventions. This idea is consistent  
with the concept of providing treatment to the 
person instead of to the particular condition,  
which is currently gaining recognition as a much 
more effective way to approach patients. 
 
By understanding the morphology and 
underlying biology of individual skin,  
and identifying the genes representative of skin’s 
aging process, designing novel strategies to  
modulate skin aging can be an effective and more 
appropriate approach to perfecting skin care.

=== Skeletofacial Differences Between Attractive and Unattractive Faces | What Makes A Face Attractive? ===
Skeletofacial Morphology of Attractive and
Nonattractive Faces
Today’s video is sponsored by Atlas VPN
Facial beauty can be thought of as the key
to all human interaction and so it is no surprise
how tightly hinged beauty is to social power
and success in all areas of life.
From the ancient Egyptians' study of beauty
reflected in their monuments , to the ancient
Greek statues of Apollo Belvedere and Aphrodite
of Melos, it is clear facial beauty was always
associated with a certain aura of power.
Even today, the most famous actors, actresses,
models, and artists generally possess a high
degree of facial attractiveness.
So the mythological gods of ancient Greece
and status symbols of today are also a representation
of the beauty ideals of the times.
For the ancient Greeks, physical beauty was
a representation of your mind and character.‘Kaloskagathos’
meant gorgeous to look at, insinuating a good
person.
We still follow this train of thought subconsciously,
today.
Men were considered beautiful through maximizing
physical masculinity, while women's beauty
ideals closely followed that of Aphrodite
with a more rounded face and wavy hair.
Yes, artists like Madison Beer are talented,
but they are also a representation of the
‘look’ most women try to emulate today.
I would even go so far as to say that if Madison
had a softer face like the Ancient Greeks
esteemed attractive, she would not be as famous
as she is, but that’s not what we’re really
interested in today.
What are the differences between an attractive
face and a not-attractive one?
Euclid first described the concept of the
‘golden-ratio’ in his book element II.
This golden ratio just describes a relationship
of a larger dissection of a line being 1.618
times longer than the shorter one; this can
be applied to a number of facial proportions
as well.
This study sought to discover how influential
the side view is to the attractiveness of
the frontal view under conditions of ‘divine’
proportions and angles.
Clearly, the front view is more important
to overall attractiveness, but Matoula and
Pancherz describe the lateral or side view
as much more revealing of the bone structure
when cephalometric x-rays are involved.
In other words, there are a lot more bone
structure indicators in an x-ray of the side
view.
Since there does not seem to be any research
on how the front influences the side, this
study just compares the bone structure of
attractive vs. non-attractive subjects to
find out if the side influences the front.
Before we dive into the study, a word from
our sponsor, Atlas VPN.
If you’re interested in getting access to
some of these scientific articles which are
locked behind paywalls, you might want to
hear this sponsorship out.
By now, it’s safe to assume that most of
you are familiar with a VPN, and if you’re
not, let me run you through it really quickly.
A VPN or Virtual Private Network, basically
encrypts your internet connection so that
you can spoof where you are in the world.
I could be in Australia, but to say an online
scientific publisher, I could be accessing
their site from a region where the Paywall
for the content is much cheaper.
Almost 50% cheaper.
You can do the same for Netflix too, where
again I always have to use a VPN because Australian
Netflix just flat out sucks and doesn’t
have half the shows the US has.
Right now, Atlas VPN is running a HUGE discount.
It means you can get a 3-year subscription
for just 1.39$ a month with a 30-day money-back
guarantee.
1.39 is about as cheap as you will ever get
a decent VPN service from one of the top brands,
and so if you’re invested into learning
about facial aesthetics for yourself, you
will be reading a lot of articles behind paywalls.
The savings there by changing countries via
VPN will very quickly pay off your VPN subscription.
Click the link in the description below to
check that out and support the brands that
support us.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Photos of 398 former orthodontic patients
were taken from the doctoral thesis of a student
at the University of Giessen.
First the photos were sorted into most pleasing,
pleasing, and not pleasing categories by 54
dental students.
From there the photos were further filtered
into attractive and non-attractive categories
depending on if they got more than 44 votes
for either category.
The dental students then took pre-recorded
lateral or side view x-rays of the patients
to assess attractiveness and different cephalometric
markers.
Some of the subjects did not have x-rays so
they were taken out of the study.
The final available pool was 30 attractive
and 32 non-attractive subjects between the
ages of 14 and 24.
The study compared the profiles to how they
stack up to divine proportions and indices.
These statistical indexes in simple terms
mean composite, or summarized facial indicators.
The methodology was very rigorous in that
measurements were made to the nearest 0.5
degree and 0.5mm, and each was taken twice
by the same person and then averaged out.
There were 5 variables being assessed.
The first was the sagittal jaw relationship
which basically just points to the alignment
of the upper and lower jaw in what is commonly
referred to as an occlusion.
Sagittal just is the plane that cuts from
the bottom to the top of the head.
You may be familiar with the terms overbite
and underbite; it is that type of idea here,
where they are just trying to see how that
occlusion affects attractiveness.
You can 
see line A to A prime shows the maxilla or
upper jaw, and line B to B prime represents
the protrusion of the lower jaw.
An underbite would basically show the B lines
being much more forward than the A lines.
The second variable was the vertical jaw relationship
which includes the mandibular plane angle,
maxillary plane angle, and interjaw-base angle.
This just shows us how declined the mandible
is relative to the frankfort plane, and the
same kind of idea with the other measurements
but just for the maxilla.
For example we can see that Johnny Depp has
a very flat mandible as a result of an overall
square jaw shape.
As we can see in table 2, Jhony’s mandibular
plane angle aligns greatly with the attractive
male group..
The third variable used was the facial height
which includes one measurement taken from
the nose to the chin divided by the overall
length of the face; this is the anterior or
forward part of the face.
The next measurement basically did the same
thing but for the back of the head where the
gonion is, or back part of the jaw.
The fourth assessment was profile convexity
with and without the nose; this was taken
of both the bony part of the face and the
soft tissue or actual skin of the profile.
Convexity just means how round the profile
is, with higher angles meaning a flatter profile
and lower ones meaning a more oval like, rounded
profile.
The last variable was the Lip position measured
by the Esthetic E line.
How far the upper lip and lower lip are from
this line plays a role in attractiveness as
we will see.
The Results show comparisons between four
groups; attractive females to non attractive
females, non attractive females to unattractive
males, Attractive males-nonattractive males,
and Attractive females-attractive males; but
since there were only five attractive males
the study did not compare the last two groups.
This is a limitation and means we cannot draw
conclusions on what makes a male attractive
profile from this study, nor can we show dimorphic
differences between attractive males and females.
For the sagittal jaw relationship, the mean
Wits Appraisal is the cephalometric term for
the relationship of the lines of the upper
and lower jaw.
In men the lower jaw is usually 1mm ahead
of the upper, and in women they are usually
aligned.
Attractive females showed on average more
upper jaw growth ahead of the lower jaw than
in unattractive females.
For the vertical jaw relationship there were
no demonstrable differences when comparing
groups.
Facial height also showed no significant difference
between attractive and unattractive females,
as well as between unattractive males and
females.
Profile convexity did however show differences.
Attractive females showed more rounded hard
tissue profile(with the bones) and soft tissue
profile convexity without the nose.
There were also dimorphic differences between
the men and women, but for the purpose of
this study we will be trying to see the differences
in attractive vs unattractive groups.
For lip position, attractive females have
less distance from their upper and lower lip
to the E line; this could be because more
attractive women presumably have smaller noses
so the line comes closer to the mouth.
Even the chin prominence can put this line
further out, so we can assume an over pronounced
chin and nose are not as attractive in women.
However, there are exceptions like Margot
Robbie who obviously is extremely attractive
yet overall just has a more masculinized facial
structure.
Clearly modern times dictate a beauty standard
of protrusive lips 
in both the front and side profile.
Even Madison beer demonstrates this; she has
a rounder soft tissue profile without the
nose, aligning with the attractive female
group averages.
She also has a fuller profile with more protrusive
and curled lips.
The study confirms this modern ideal along
with the fact that more convex or rounded
profiles are preferable in females.
Through all of the metrics, attractive women
showed a more convex hard tissue profile as
it relates to the occlusion of the jaw, and
the nasion.
The study describes more rounded profiles
as appearing softer and more youthful when
compared to mature flat profiles.
Interestingly enough, while we’d assume
flatter profiles to be more masculine and
thus attractive, one study by Douglas et al.
actually shows men’s attractiveness following
this trend of fuller lips and more convex
profiles.
Facial profiles of 116 male models were collected
from the last 65 years; correlation between
time and things like lip curl, lip protrusion,
and overall facial profile were clear as day.
It seems as time has gone on the facial profile
attractiveness standards of males is somewhat
aligning with that of females.
The initial study goes on to say that objective
measurements are not enough to explain the
attractiveness of a face because things like
hair color, health, skin, facial expression,
and culture like we talked about all influence
attractiveness.
Alexander pope said “Tis not a lip or eye
we beauty call, But the joint force and full
result of all,” meaning we have to look
at the whole picture to really appreciate
beauty.
And tying into the original question of how
the side influences the front; well the side
only influences the beauty of the 
frontal view 
a little.

=== What's With All The 'Almond Eye' Look? ===
With quotes like, “the eyes are the window to the 
soul” and countless variations of that, it becomes  
clear we have a fascination with the eyes. People 
try to classify such a complex anatomical feature  
into eye shape charts or tutorials on how to 
know your eye shape. This can often get confusing  
as these rough guides are not a comprehensive 
overview of all people’s eye shapes. We can see in  
the comments people still have trouble pinpointing 
exactly what their eyes can be characterized as.  
The fact of it is, the eyes are probably 
the most multifaceted feature in the face.  
This is why it is so rare to have two eyes 
look alike. From facial recognition software,  
to interpersonal relationships and communication, 
we always pick up on the eyes as uniquely  
‘us’. We’ve touched on eyes before in our 
video, “why the eyes make or break the face”,  
and “The differences between male and female 
eye shapes.” Today we will break down what  
makes up an attractive eye shape and why. These 
vague pseudoscience tiktoks and eye shape charts  
will be reinforced with detail from anthropometric 
facial analysis and cephalometric science,  
or the studies of human facial 
proportions and measurement.  
Hopefully this will help you better 
identify what kind of eyes you have. 
Generally, almond eyes are preferred in both men 
and women and we will see why that is in a moment.  
Almond eyes typically have a tighter lower lip 
shape, supported by fat, muscle, and underlying  
bones. In a case study done by oculoplastic 
surgeon Daniel Ezra on almond eyes, he notes  
how all of these different eye shapes are actually 
mainly due to the morphology of the midface and  
nature of the eye sockets themselves. Thus, when 
people go to get a blepharoplasty, or ‘eye lift’;  
they are trying to replicate that almond eye look. 
If one does not have the proper midface support,  
then the results of such a ‘bandage’ operation 
will not likely last.. Thus, the midface bones are  
a key contributor to the appearance of ‘almond 
eyes’. Ezra makes note of a patient having a  
positive orbital vector, meaning good midface bone 
prominence which will lead to better long-term  
retainment of the lid lift.That tighter, retracted 
eyelid look is naturally achieved through  
prominent support of maxillary bones including 
the zygomatic bones, infraorbitalis, and more.  
Ezra notes how difficult it is to truly 
replicate the curvatures and shapes that result  
in almond eyes. Without that support, you get a 
droopier, tired appearance with less eye upturn  
and other undesirable features. Those lacking 
midface bones tend to have more scleral show,  
or apparent whites of the eyes. In this before and 
after, we can see the transition from a lax lower  
lid and scleral show to the ‘eye lift’ with less 
scleral show. The tiktok video associates ‘round’  
eyes with this scleral show, and almond eyes with 
no scleral show. It is not that black and white,  
but usually almond eyes do have minimal scleral 
show due to elevated midface bone support.  
The most common surgery worldwide in 2013 
according to the ISAPS(International Study  
on Aesthetic/Cosmetic Procedures) was an 
eyelid surgery, and the Western leader in  
Cosmetic surgeries, the US, is no exception. 
Still, eastern countries like South Korea  
also favor eyelid surgeries. The goal of most 
Koreans and Asian peoples is not usually to lift  
the lower lid though, but to alter the monolid 
about half of the Asian population possesses.  
Almond eyes being arguably the most attractive 
eye shape is moreso a Western beauty phenomena,  
while rounder, more feminine eye shapes with 
less angularity are preferred in eastern beauty  
culture. This hunter-like look with a shapely 
raised lower eyelids and higher eye width to  
height ratio produces more narrow, angular eye 
areas. This follows the trends we see in eastern  
beauty culture being almost opposite to that in 
western culture; larger rounded eyes, smaller face  
shapes, v-shaped jaws, and softer brow regions are 
usually preferred. It should come as no surprise  
that more rounded eyes with less protrusive 
bones around the ocular region are attractive  
in eastern beauty culture because the emphasis is 
on a less overbearing bone structure. If prominent  
maxilofacial growth, or growth around the 
mid-face, is not a key factor in eastern culture,  
then that will translate to the appearance of the 
eye area. Their eyes will be less hunter-like,  
with minimal brow bone and orbital bone 
prominence. Even the position of the eyebrows  
will reflect this as it is connected to the 
shape and protrusion of the bones above the eye.
One characteristic that often accompanies almond 
eyes is a downturned medial canthus, or that  
sharp inner corner of the eye. It is no surprise 
women try to accentuate this through eyeliner to  
give that illusory, cat-like appearance. In 
a study done by Bashour and Geist titled,  
“Is medial canthal tilt a powerful cue for facial 
attractiveness?” It was concluded female faces  
almost always were preferred with accentuated 
medial canthus. The reason ties into the tilt  
of the eyes; when the inner corner is lowered, 
the angle from the inner to outer corner, or the  
canthal tilt, becomes larger. More positively 
tilted eyes, within reason, are associated with  
femininity and increased attractiveness. Even 
in men some femininity and positive tilt can  
be considered beautiful. A defined medial canthus 
also adds angularity to the eye like in a feline,  
although not to that extent. Round eyes will 
typically lack this defined inner corner,  
and have less positive canthal tilt as 
a result. Downturned eyes refer to an  
angle between the inner corner and outer 
corner below zero, straight is about zero,  
and upturned eyes have an angle noticeably 
above zero. However, canthal tilt can vary  
a lot between individuals and racial groups, and 
some eyes can be extremely upturned or downturned.
Deep set eyes require midface bone support, 
but also forward growth of the brow bone and  
supraorbitalis, or bones above the eye. It is 
that relationship between the bones above and  
below the eye being more forward than the eye 
itself than creates deep set eyes. Typically  
more deep set eyes will be found in men as they 
just have more protrusive brow bones, but having  
a prominent midface region also helps to achieve 
deep set eyes. For the same reasons, deep set eyes  
are considered attractive because they have 
surrounding bone support that may have been  
helpful in protecting the eyes. Bulging eyes also 
have negative associations with being bug-like
You will commonly see the eyes being classified 
as close set or wide set by people. Even without  
understanding cephalometric markers, people are 
surprisingly good at picking out changes in eye  
separation. Thompson notes how “One example of 
this exquisite performance is our ability to  
discriminate differences in the lateral separation 
of the eyes in pairs of otherwise identical  
faces”.. We can tell when someone’s eyes are just 
a little too close together or far apart. This  
was made evident through the bullying of a 
tiktoker on her interpupillary distance being  
extremely high; she was being barraged with rude 
comments and jokes about her eye separation.  
Obviously we will not show her, but it 
goes to show even a simple proportion  
can completely throw off one’s facial harmony.
Perhaps the most important factor in an eye area  
is eye spacing. Even without the most striking 
eye shape, a harmonious eye spacing can lead to  
pleasant looking eyes. Justin is an example 
of this and he does not even have ‘perfect’  
eye spacing. The common trope is that the 
eyes should be one eye apart, and any more  
than that means wide set eyes, and any less 
close set eyes. This is a good place to start,  
but it will not apply to everyone. For instance 
in this comment; clearly the eye spacing can look  
different even being one eye apart. Ex-basketball 
player Marko Jaric has extremely close set eyes,  
but they do not appear to be too far off that 
one eye apart standard. Even if they were spaced  
apart slightly, they would still look off. This is 
where interpupillary distance as a percentage of  
total facial width comes into play. The distance 
between the pupils should normally be about 45-47%  
of facial width, and anything extremely outside 
of that range will negatively affect facial  
harmony. Then it is no surprise Marko’s eyes are 
about 40% of his facial width. Ana taylor joy is  
an example of wide set eyes being one eye apart. 
Her eyes make up over 50% of her facial width.  
So to truly tell if your eyes are wide set or 
close set it is best to use both the one eye test,  
and eye separation ratio. The most attractive 
eyes will have the eyes be one eye apart  
and about 46% of facial width. Alain Delon, Henry 
Cavil, Cillian Murphy, Romee Strijd, Megan Fox,  
Broderick hunter, and Sendhil Ramamurthy are 
all great examples of this, no surprise there.  
Interestingly enough, most of these attractive eye 
areas have a sharp and downturned medial canthus  
and almond-shaped eyes. It is not a coincidence 
most desirable traits tend to come in groups;  
deep set, upturned almond eyes with minimal 
to no scleral show and harmonious eye spacing  
seem to be the standard in a hyper-attractive 
face. Even then, what makes your eyes identifiably  
‘you’ may be having downturned eyes or more wide 
set eyes. After all, we are not all uniform robots  
and the best part is we can have eyes that are 
unique from everyone else. Eye shape matters,  
but trying to box yourself into one 
category likely won’t do your eyes justice;  
instead, look at the features that make up 
the eyes to truly admire their uniqueness.

=== Siren Vs Doe Eyes | Alexa Demie (Maddy From Euphoria) | What Makes Her Face Attractive? ===
﻿Today we are going to be talking about Maddy, 
played by Alexa Demie, from Euphoria and her  
‘Siren Eyes’ as well as other facial 
features that lend themselves to her  
role. The ‘siren eyes’ tiktok trend depicts the 
sultry allure of the eyes. That transition from  
a ‘doe’ eyed look to ‘siren’ eyes is simply going 
from innocent and vulnerable to a more strikingly  
seductive appearance. There have been many 
different tricks & techniques circulating on how  
to pull off this look, but they all try to achieve 
that same ‘bedroom eyes’ look. The two are pretty  
much synonymous, but with slight differences. 
Bedroom eyes usually just refer to any captivating  
eye area; this usually includes darker brows 
that are closer to the eyes, almond eye shape,  
upturned brows, and moderate upper eyelid 
exposure. ‘Siren eyes’ typically allow for more  
upper eyelid exposure and scleral show(or whites 
of the eyes). In short, bedroom eyes are probably  
more exclusive and hard to naturally achieve, 
while Siren eyes have a similar seductive effect,  
but are more of how you carry yourself than 
pure eye morphology alone. What characterizes  
the ‘siren eyes’ look that Maddy has is a lax 
eyebrow and eyelid position as opposed to an  
alert one This change of expression from doe to 
siren eyes affects emotional indicators in the eye  
area by altering cephalometric markers in 
eye morphology. When the eyes are widened,  
the eye width to height ratio also similarly 
the eye aspect ratio becomes smaller,  
in effect rounding out the eyes and making them 
look more innocent and bambi-like. ‘Siren’ eyes  
lead to higher eye width to height ratios, 
and more striking eye shapes; it basically  
achieves the same effect of squinting the eyes or 
having an angry expression, without the emotional  
baggage of a brow crease. It is that ‘blank’ 
allure that makes siren eyes so captivating. In  
the same breath, Siren eyes also look tired and 
uncaring. When you relax the lid and brow muscles  
there is more upper eyelid and sclera exposed; 
it is trying to replicate what you look like when  
you are tired. The reason your upper eyelids 
feel heavy when tired is due to the fatigue  
of the levator muscles. This contributes to the 
‘bedroom eyes’ look, whereas Bambi looks like he  
is always awake. A simple trick like tilting the 
head back can make the eyes appear more tired  
and less alert. Some tiktokers are pointing out 
the hilarity of this trend and how it is just  
people exaggerating their head position and trying 
too hard to pull off the ‘look’. When we give  
attraction indicators, we typically do not stare 
at people with widened eyes like a sociopath;  
there is some kind of seductive technique or 
‘gaze’ that accompanies sexual interest. If your  
eye shape is naturally ‘siren like’, then you will 
appear to have that look as a baseline. Everyone  
has a different baseline. You can squint your eyes 
or lower your brows to try and copy that ‘look’,  
but it won’t ever be exactly the same as someone 
like Maddy who effortlessly pulls it off.  
 
This ‘look’ certainly applies to the nature of 
her character in Euphoria. Her eyes carry along an  
unwavering, uncaring, and constantly seductive 
aura. Maddy Perez is exactly that; she is involved  
in toxic relationships including with the school 
jock Nate. She is that popular girl that has an  
intangible sense of who she is. With her well 
above average features and dentofacial growth,  
her facial attractiveness also lends itself 
to her role. She constantly uses her looks to  
manipulate others and her ‘siren eyes’ only help 
in seducing, cheating, and stirring jealousy.  
Her‘siren eyes’ make a statement that says she 
doesn’t care what the outside world thinks. Maddy  
freely expresses herself in most cases; this 
is in contrast to Lexi, who has a more passive,  
spectator-esque nature. Her eyes and overall 
facial appearance also represent this, with ‘doe’  
eyes, and weaker dentofacial growth. That contrast 
in jaw shape and facial structure put Lexi into  
the ‘nice girl’ or ‘girl next door’ archetype. 
Maddy’s ‘look’ is less trustworthy and likable  
due to her darker hair and brows, more defined 
bone structure, and ‘siren eyes’. A study by  
Mitsuhiro studied the role of eye characteristics 
in facial attractiveness, beauty, and likeability.  
Of particular relevance were the measurements of 
eye size, measured as the total area of the eye,  
and eye roundness measured as the eye width to 
height ratio. While eye size does not correlate  
well with beauty, attractiveness, and likeability, 
the proportion of iris to the whole eye and eye  
roundness correlate well with all three. “In 
particular, facial likability was correlated with  
large eye size, which reflects childishness or 
cuteness. These results suggest the possibility  
that likable faces, rather than beautiful or 
attractive ones, are considered familiar or  
safe ``. It makes sense why Maddy and Nate’s 
eyes are not overly round; these are not meant  
to be the most likable and childish people. In 
fact Nate has an abusive and dark personality.  
With an eye width to height ratio of approximately 
3 to 1, Maddy does not have ‘rounded’ eyes. Lexi  
on the other hand would have a ratio approaching 
2 to 1, meaning the eyes are only two times wider  
than they are vertically tall. These ‘Doe’ 
eyes, along with Lexi’s fairer hair and brows  
compliment what the directors had in mind 
for her initial character’s archetype. We’ve  
touched on in past videos how typecasting does not 
necessarily limit a character to their stereotype.  
Instead, it sets up the foundation of what a 
viewer would associate with a character’s ‘look’.  
Then, as the seasons progress, it gives room for a 
character to grow out of their shell. Typecasting  
just helps keep the audience guessing at the 
end of the day; without it, we just wouldn’t  
feel the same character attachment. 
Maddy’s jaw is also sharp, with a more acute  
gonial angle than lexi. This is pretty typical 
for the popular kid stereotype as it generally  
leads to a more attractive face and plays into the 
‘halo effect’ discussed in scientific literature;  
higher jaw angles produce rounder, less 
striking, and less dominant jaw shapes.  
Maddy’s jaw still has a feminized morphology, but 
it is certainly more attractive and angular than  
average. Nate fits this trend with a typically 
masculinized jaw and prominent dentofacial growth.  
Lexi, on the other hand, has a round jaw 
without much definition or angularity.  
Usually the less trustworthy, manipulative, 
and popular characters are portrayed with  
above average facial attractiveness; this comes in 
the form of jaw angularity, cheekbone prominence,  
striking eye-shape, and darker coloring, not to 
mention the character’s attire. While attractive,  
usually those typecast into a high schooler role 
won’t be hyper attractive. It just wouldn't look  
right. Jacob Elordi who plays Nate is also a 
model, but he does not have the same striking  
facial appearance as top male models. The same 
thing can be applied to Maddy, where she does  
not have extremely high cheekbones or prominent 
forward growth. Her zygomatic bones are prominent,  
but the most protrusive part of the ogee curve 
indicates she has low-set cheekbones. Her  
casting needs these physical ‘differences’ 
because we’re not going for the striking  
modelesque look but rather a believable, high 
schooler who would have less facial leanness than  
a starving model. This is not always the case as 
some shows like the vampire diaries go all out and  
use hyper-attractive actors, but I suppose that 
plays into the appeal and exclusivity of vampires;  
they are not your normal high schooler. 
A big component to this ‘siren eyes’ look  
has a lot to do with eye tiredness, or giving off 
that ‘I’m falling asleep’ or ‘I don’t care’ vibe.  
In fact, a study by Ahad et al. studied a thing 
called the tiredness assessment. This assessment  
integrates things like eye width to height 
ratio into the somewhat complex Eye Aspect Ratio  
formula. But in simple terms all the eye aspect 
ratio is trying to measure is how ‘awake’ the eyes  
look. It is interesting how certain cephalometric 
markers affect even how tired our eyes look. Their  
study essentially measures eye closure time and 
blinking ability to assess tiredness. To do so,  
the eye has to first be fully opened and that 
is where the eye aspect ratio comes into play.  
A lower eye aspect ratio indicates more open or 
rounded eyes, while higher ratios indicate less  
opened eyes. To be able to set a baseline, the 
eyes have to be fully open. This is why those with  
siren eyes look half asleep, because their eyes 
are probably not at baseline levels of openness.  
Even if they are, it gives off the appearance of 
tiredness when compared to someone with a higher  
Eye-Aspect-Ratio and more alert eyes. The study 
ended up showing a blink rate reduction as the  
day went on; a normal person usually blinks 10 
times a minute and 4-6 times is classified as  
drowsy. Among drowsy people, the blink rate 
reduced from about 6 times a minute in the morning  
to 3 times at midnight. Without even putting 
Maddy up to that test, her eyes just give off the  
appearance that she is too tired to blink 10 times 
in a minute. Add on the fact that she has upper  
eyelid exposure and scleral show underneath the 
iris and her eyes become even more sleepy looking.  
It is these traits that separate a traditionally 
modelesque eye area, or ‘bedroom eyes’, from that  
‘siren eyes’ look. Siren eyes would best be summed 
up as seductive tiredness. This means eyes with  
attractive properties like orbital bone support, 
eye upturn, and dense brows, but also some unique  
traits that play around with emotional indicators 
as well as apparently, sleep indicators.

=== Why The Angle Of The JAW Influences Your Look ===
﻿The basics series/ Gonial angle
[In this episode…] 
 
On this channel, I’ve noticed that a lot 
of the newer viewers don’t really know what  
I’m talking about when I use anatomical terms 
like jaw ramus, zygomatic bone or mandible body  
and partially this is because I’ve taken for 
granted what I expect people to already know  
since we’ve covered it on the channel in the past. 
In this new series, we’re going to bring back an  
old series called defining beauty, but in a more 
newbie friendly format, so that you can revise  
what you already know or learn a thing or two and 
see how certain anatomical features on your face  
affect your facial appeal greatly. Today’s 
episode will be focusing on the Gonial Angle  
and how it can completely change the look of the 
face. Hopefully incorporating photoshop as we go  
can better illuminate how this feature works.
What is the Gonial angle?
 
To understand what this angle is and how it 
contributes to the ‘look’ of the whole face,  
we have to super quickly go over 3 terms. That is 
it; remember these terms and you will be good for  
the whole video. To better brush up on these 
terms, going back to the Ramus 101 video may  
be helpful. The Ramus is that back part of the 
jaw that grows in a more downward direction,  
as shown here on Brian Whittaker with the red 
line. The mandible body is the blue line and  
the lower part of the jaw. It typically grows more 
forward than down. The joining of these two lines  
occurs at the Gonion: that circled, lowest part 
of the back jaw. And so, the angle formed between  
these lines is called the ‘Gonial Angle’. Simple 
enough, right. That is all you really have to  
know to understand the Gonial angle. The Gonial 
Angle is a sexually dimorphic trait, with men  
typicaly having lower angles than women. The main 
reason for this is the Ramus Length, which is also  
a sexually dimorphic trait. Balaji et al. discuss 
this gender influence. When the ramus grows  
further down on the face, the angle formed between 
it and the mandible ends up being more acute.  
Women will commonly have higher angles and more 
rounded jaw shapes. This does not mean that women  
cannot have a low Gonial Angle, and we will look 
at examples of this in the video. We have already  
touched on the Ramus’ importance to generating 
leverage and Bite force in the Jaw. Men will  
have stronger Bite force on average due to both a 
Longer Ramus and thus lower jaw angle. The ramus  
acts as a lever arm with the Temporomandibular 
joint at the mid ear acting as the fulcrum. The  
most advantageous inclination is a ever so 
slightly forward one, and physics comes into  
play with stuff like the masseter muscles acting 
as a moment arm. So all else equal, lower gonial  
angles within reason (110-125 degrees) produce 
more bite force, and are the most attractive.  
Said et al.’s findings in 2017 would confirm this, 
with strong negative correlation shown between  
Mandibular Bite Force and Gonial Angle. The lower 
the Angle, the more bite force, and vice versa.  
Even the jaw muscles gain size depending on the 
Gonial Angle; The lower the angle, the more work  
the masseter muscles do and grow. Again, if 
this sounds confusing, the Ramus 101 video  
should help. To accurately measure this angle, 
usually the individual should be facing completely  
to the side, because even slight turning makes 
the angle higher than it actually is. 
 
How does the Gonial Angle affect 
our facial aesthetic?
 
Still, in Brian’s case we can see how his 
jaw aesthetic changes as we mess around with  
some of the bones in his jaw. Reducing his Ramus 
length and verticality, or rounding out his jaw,  
brings that angle upwards of 130 degrees, taking 
away from some of his masculinity. Timothee  
Chalamet is an example of a Gonial Angle that 
is not incredibly masculinized. His Gonial Angle  
of 126 degrees is in an aesthetic range, but he 
does not have a lot of Ramus Length. Squaring  
off his jaw by increasing his ramus length gives 
him a lower Gonial angle. It does not mesh that  
well with his facial aesthetic, and would likely 
make his jaw appear too flat in the frontal view.  
There is no doubt, though, that it heavily 
masculinizes his face. In this morph,  
we can see how reducing the angle by only about 5 
degrees really masculinizes the face. Of course,  
there are other things changed in this photo too, 
but the jaw just looks better. Model Malaika Firth  
also has a lower Gonial angle. She has a little 
upward motion of the jaw towards the chin,  
which throws off the straightness of the mandible. 
This just shows how there are so many different  
variations of Ramus shape, inclination, and 
length, combined with mandible inclination  
and shape that can make the same Gonial Angle look 
different. Altering her jaw shape to have a more  
vertical ramus, and straighter mandible, gives her 
a masculinized Gonial Angle. Changing her ramus  
to incline heavily has an opposite effect. No two 
jaws are alike because there are so many different  
moving pieces. Further rounding out her jaw makes 
it kind of vague where her Gonion is and where her  
Ramus begins. We’ve established that a visible 
ramus is an attractive trait, so a super rounded  
jaw shape just blurs the line between ramus and 
mandible. An example of a hyper-masculinized  
morphology of the ramus and Gonial angle is model 
and previously convicted Felon Jeremey Meeks.  
After we round out his jaw, he might as well be 
back in prison. Obviously these edits will not  
look entirely realistic. The forward growth of the 
cheekbones, brow bone, chin, and overall midface  
region are at least somewhat connected to the 
growth of the jaw and Gonial Angle. Changing only  
the Gonial angle can look out of place because 
those other traits would not develop in isolation.  
Why would genetics and environment get everything 
else right, but arguably the most important part  
wrong. It can happen, but it is rare. 
Taylor Hill is in a similar boat, with a  
long ramus and low Gonial Angle. 
Going back to some old celebrities we have  
analyzed here on Qoves, Ryan has a surprisingly 
good Gonial Angle. His ramus is near vertical,  
so despite a downward grown jaw, the angle between 
his ramus and mandible remains harmonious. His jaw  
morphology is that low-bite force one we described 
earlier. Completely changing his jaw morphology  
by nearly doubling his Ramus length makes his 
Jaw Akin to a Chris hemsworth. That lowering of  
the Ramus meets with the mandible to completely 
remove the look of his downward grown jaw. Ramus  
length plays a huge role in the overall aesthetic 
of the jaw; it is not an isolated cephalometric  
feature. Real jaws won’t be quite as straight 
though, the ramus usually has some slight natural  
curvature to it. Zoe has that type of Jaw shape, 
and a low Gonial angle of about 120 degrees.  
Some jaws will have no discernable Gonial Angle, 
as we cannot even see that separation between  
the Mandible body and Ramus. This can apply to 
those with thick beards too. Especially with  
lots of submental and hyoid fat, the jaw can be so 
obscured and rounded it basically gives the look  
of a super high Gonial Angle. When we actually 
calculate Benedict’s angle, it is very good. We  
will come to see, though, that the Gonial Angle is 
not everything when it comes to the attractiveness  
of the jaw. Like in Benedict's case, his 
jaw is poorly forward and downward grown.  
A term called the ‘Mandibular Plane angle’ is used 
to show a downwards grown or flat jaw (we might do  
a 101 video on this too). Benedict's mandible 
downward inclines 35 degrees, which is a clear  
sign of poor dentofacial development. This makes 
itself apparent even in the front view. So a quick  
recap of terms, Benedict’s jaw could be summed up 
as having a high set gonion with a vertical ramus  
and downward grown mandible. Asian Supermodel Sui 
He has probably the lowest Gonial angle so far.  
Simply changing the shape of her gonion region 
takes away from the Robust nature of her jaw.  
When her exceptional dentofacial growth gets taken 
away, her overall attractiveness takes a hit by  
Western standards. Theo James is an example of an 
extremely long Ramus that inclines a bit to make a  
125 degree Gonial Angle. Changing the jaw of Cindy 
Bruna completely alters her look to be softer,  
feminized, and confirmative of eastern beauty 
standards. Her powerful jaw and low Gonial  
angle makes her a perfect fit for Western 
beauty high fashion modeling, like Sui. 
 
I get the side, but how does changing this 
angle change how we actually look front on?
 
We can see the ramus extending from the 
ear to the lowest part of the back jaw,  
even in the front view. So the same concept 
applies here. Theoretically, shaving off some  
gonion and rounding out the ramus would soften and 
feminize the jaw shape when viewed from the front.  
Sui He goes from Western beauty standard 
supermodel with a diamond/square face,  
to an Eastern beauty k-pop star with a more oval 
facial shape. Jeremy also loses a lot of his  
facial strikingness and jaw contours. The overall 
dentofacial development looks more downward grown,  
with less jaw prominence, depth, and angularity. 
Without even changing his chin forward projection,  
his jaw just looks more recessed and melted. He is 
still attractive, but notably less so. If we take  
someone with a relatively higher Gonial angle like 
RDJ, and lower his gonion(remember, that lowest  
point in the back part of the jaw), in effect 
lengthening the ramus and lowering the gonial  
angle, his face just becomes more masculine. 
Further lowering Brian’s Gonion gives him a  
minecraft steve look, so there is a happy balance. 
Basically, Gonial angles below 110 degrees equals  
square. Angles above 135-140 degrees equals 
oval and round. Even subtly editing Ian  
Somerhalder’s Gonial angle from the front weakens 
his dentofacial structure. He is still attractive  
because it is nothing extreme, but it shows the 
significance of the jaw angle. Sometimes this can  
work to an advantage in women with a flatter jaw 
shape. In eastern beauty culture, or in extreme  
cases, Gonial Angle reduction surgery will be 
sought after to replicate the look we demonstrated  
earlier. Balaji et al. note that desire for 
correction in extreme square faces. Hsu et al.  
show the result of such an operation being almost 
exactly like we showed earlier. Generally though,  
lower angles will be more attractive than higher 
ones because they produce sharper jaws as we have  
seen. A forward, rather than downward grown jaw 
is also associated with propper dentofacial growth  
around the whole face. So a good gonial angle 
can be a clue into proper facial development,  
but not in all cases like we have seen 
with Ryan Gosling or Benedict. 
 
If you would like to get your face assessed, 
to learn about whether you have a masculine  
or feminine ramus, your jaw angles and 
how they affect your face or just get an  
indepth look into your face order a QOVES 
facial evaluation over at our website,  
performed by our in-house team of 
doctors and dentists to help you achieve  
that next big glow-up. As always follow us on 
Instagram for bite-sized content and subscribe on  
youtube.

=== Scars = Hot, According to Science... but why? ===
again just before we start a quick
reminder to join us on the discord
that's the first link in the description
it's very active and i think if you
watch this channel you'll really enjoy
it there welcome back to the channel
today we're going to be covering facial
scars especially how post-traumatic
scarring may increase a person's
perceived social worth this episode is
mainly well for our male audience just a
disclaimer it should go without saying
that the intention of this video is not
to belittle or to hurt anyone who is
battling severe facial disfigurement
like in the cases of people who are
dealing with acid attack scars or any
major facial injuries we're mainly
talking about more minor facial scarring
with that being said let's explore this
2008 study by robert p burus and
colleagues titled facial scarring
enhances men's attractiveness for
short-term relationships these
psychologists at the university of
liverpool and stirling decide to
investigate the effects of facial scars
here and it's important to mention that
this study was done from a
heteronormative view by asking 115 women
and 64 men to rate the attractiveness of
eight strangers of the opposite sex
half were asked to look at original face
shots while the other half viewed images
that had been digitally manipulated to
add scarring to the cheek jawbone or
forehead while the scars made no
difference to the perceived
attractiveness of the women scarred men
ranked 5.7 percentage points higher in
the appeal ratings than those with
undamaged skin
their results suggest that under certain
circumstances scars may advertise valued
information about their bearers and that
the idea that scarring universally
devalues social perceptions can no
longer be assumed to be true so in other
words scars are not really a negative
for men they seem to actually advertise
that you've gone through some kind of
hardship and you came out stronger and
on top
now let me reiterate what i think this
means in much simpler terms some scars
on men give a certain level of character
like it gives you an edge a rebellious
look almost like a bad boy risk taker
vibe and it's kind of does say a lot
more about you than you would expect
mainly that you've put yourself out
there in a dangerous or risky situation
now whether that was for the right
reasons or the wrong ones perhaps trying
to defend a vulnerable person or you
were just trying to pick a fight and you
lost that doesn't really matter the main
thing is that you got out there and you
did something rather than staying in the
comfort of your own home or perhaps you
just got that scar trying to do some
handiwork in your own home in which case
it's best you don't tell people how you
got that scar
this idea is much the same with tattoos
like we've covered in our podcast
episode the perception of tattoos where
we took a look on the madonna
dichotomy it's very common in literature
that women are either a madonna or
they're a and there's no in
between and they're written as such and
following this patriarchal model
basically the findings were that women
with tattoos aren't considered higher up
on the social ladder compared to men
with tattoos where it's not as much of a
penalizing characteristic and this is
because of multifaceted reasons the most
simple answer for this video is that it
is a masculinizing characteristic and if
you go back to early hunter-gatherer
societies you're more likely to get a
scar from hunting than you are from
foraging for food and just because of
those gender roles it's become
associated with masculine traits that
being said let's talk about some of the
celebrities who have used their facial
scars to open doors define characters
and explore different storytelling
opportunities in very much unforgettable
ways now don't get me wrong here their
skills have brought them the success
that they deserve and their confidence
in themselves including their scars have
made them into legends take the example
of the scar between joaquin phoenix's
lip and nose that is quite visible i
mean it practically had the second
building in gladiator it is known as a
microphone cleft which is a mild form of
a cleft lip which means that he was born
with it and it has served his career
quite well fitting perfectly into the
roles in which he has played a tough
multi-dimensional character like 1999's
amm 2012's the master where we see him
as a volatile world war ii veteran or
will everyone's favorite the joker his
facial scars give him the edge as a
dangerous looking character i think it's
safe to assume that a female actress
with similar amount of scarring and
facial features would also be seen as a
cutthroat character but you don't see
that as often in hollywood and i suppose
this is for some kind of patriarchal
reason but it seems that the directors
like to keep the female leads face clean
and a good example of this was with the
batman where robert patterson had a
decent amount of facial scarring but zoe
kravitz had none and to me it kind of
downplays her role as batman's equal
where she doesn't have as much scarring
so therefore she's just serves as a
pretty face and eye candy whereas
realistically they should be very
compatible fighters who have gone
through equal amounts of battles and
therefore have similar amounts of
scarring but it's not a coincidence that
zoe kravitz has perfectly clear skin
another example of scarring being used
to male advantage is game of thrones
casting of jason momoa as the formidable
carl drogo which is arguably a stroke of
genius momoa's scars fit the role
perfectly just as it would eventually
complement his portrayal of the
trident-bearing heir to the throne of
atlantis in aquaman now the story behind
the scar also adds to the appeal as we
mentioned in the study previously and he
said in an interview that he actually
got it in a bar barfi in which you took
a pint of glass to the face it's quite
interesting that a scar something that
may commonly be seen as a negative can
actually be used to your benefit in the
casting last example how can we forget
tom hiddleston's forehead scar but
hiddleston did perfect justice with this
moo charm and wicked smile and the scar
very much added some depth to the
character i know personally i wouldn't
trust somebody with a clean baby face to
convince me that has gone through many
different fights
also very interesting from an aesthetic
perspective to observe that in almost
all action movies after fight scenes or
a car accident or what say you we can
evidently see a fresh wound
strategically placed by the makeup
artist on either one cheekbone like this
so like doctor strange or two lips like
here
now this is strictly in no way or shape
or form to make you men indulge in the
idea of getting a self-inflicted wound
to increase your sexual appeal
scars do undeniably make many men look
more masculine and rugged and show that
they're able to overcome adversity but
you need to actually go through some
adversity to overcome that
self-inflicting wounds to look more
aesthetic is a very silly idea it has to
make sense with your character you would
expect an mma fighter or somebody who's
really into martial arts to have some
scarring you wouldn't expect somebody
who plays pokemon go all day no no
disrespect to pokemon go but you
wouldn't expect them to have the same
level of scarring or for the same
reasons not all scars are built the same
and oftentimes as women rely more on
emotional connection rather than
physical attraction
the story that goes with the sky is the
most attractive part of the whole
aesthetic itself if you say that you got
the scar from falling off a log trying
to catch some pokemons it's very
different to saying you got this guy
trying to defend a young lady as a
security guard working as a bouncer one
day
in a 1988 study by shannon life
history's blood revenge and warfare in a
tribal population it is noted that
post-traumatic scars that are acquired
through combat or other heroic behaviors
may also serve to advertise value traits
for example yanumamo men of the tribe
from venezuela often shave their heads
and rub red pigment into their scalps to
increase the visibility of their scars
thus demonstrating their bravery and
ability to withstand and recover from an
enemy's blow not all scars are made
equal
rynomir schmish that is such a tough
word to pronounce but it's a german word
meaning bragging scars referring to the
days of academic fencing where men would
often times wear these scars like a
medal
this wasn't that long ago either the
late 1980s people would crudely suture
their inflicted cuts so that they could
wear them like medals you wouldn't
properly heal the card you'd do it in a
way that left a scar on purpose i don't
know if you've noticed this but most
bond villains seem to have a scar and
it's very much the same idea here they
wear it like a metal so to sum things up
for you what have we learnt here boys
and girls basically facial scars are
perceived by women as an attractive
quality for short-term relationships
because they find it to be a symbol of
masculinity a feature that is linked to
high testosterone levels and an
indicator of good genes but also they
show that you can overcome difficulties
in your life and come out on top now men
without scars however could be seen as
more caring and therefore more suitable
for long-term relationships and this is
something we've spoken ad nauseam on the
podcast and also if you haven't joined
us already on the discord server it was
newly made a couple of weeks ago then i
don't know what you're waiting for the
link is in the description as always if
you want to get your face assessed by
our team of doctors and dentists and
learn about your facial aesthetic you
can also order a aesthetic report over
at the website or follow us on tiktoken
instagram
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
you

=== How Facial Fat Influences Your Looks | What Makes A Face Attractive? ===
﻿How body fat influences facial 
attractiveness Qoves/Facial Fat 101
 
[In this episode…] 
We will be taking a look at  
why facial fat, and bodyfat percentage as a whole 
make such a noticeable difference in facial shape,  
perception, and attractiveness. It is 
not a stretch to say that facial fat can  
completely change your look. 
What is facial fat/body fat?
 
First, let's briefly explain what facial fat is. 
Just like the fat found around your belly, adipose  
tissue gain is a natural process that results from 
an increase in energy intake, aka food. The body  
fat we want to focus on is subcutaneous fat, 
because that is the type of fat found under  
the skin,; this applies not only to places like 
the stomach, but the face holds subcutaneous fat  
as well, especially around the buccal, or cheek 
region. When we eat less food or exercise more,  
we lose that extra adipose tissue. In the same way 
that losing belly fat causes the abdominal muscles  
to ‘pop’, the exact same thing applies to the 
face. The difference is, it is mostly the bones  
like the jawline and cheekbones that we quickly 
see ‘popping’, instead of a muscle. But this  
general idea of ‘depth’ and 3d-ness is what 
makes an attractive face. The abs seem to have  
a lot more ‘depth’ as you lose body fat, and so 
do the cheekbones, midface region, and jawline.  
Even though we usually see photos from a 2-D view, 
we can still pick up on that ‘depth perception’.  
A face with more facial fat just lacks those 
contours in the 3-D context. Coleman et al.  
discuss the importance of considering 
the 3-Dness of the midface region.
 
How does bodyfat affect face shape?
Even moderate amounts of fat gain  
can completely change your face shape and 
attractiveness. Taylor Lautner loses a lot of the  
angularity around his mid-to lower face. These are 
some of the more obvious effects of weight gain:  
an overall poofier face with rounded cheeks and 
jaw. The zygion is the widest part of your face,  
where your cheekbones are. When you gain body 
fat you lose whatever contours you had in that  
region. Usually there will be a slight ‘dip’ right 
above and below the cheekbones at the temporal  
region. A lean face will have more contours and 
be more shapely and angular. This is most easily  
seen in the mandible as you lose weight, but the 
same concept applies to all areas of the face.  
Since we tend to gain facial fat around the 
midface region and jaw, extreme cases of fat gain  
can completely change your face shape, causing 
all sorts of facial contours and proportions  
that do not really look natural. Chris Pratt had 
an incredible weight loss journey and his facial  
attractiveness improved a lot as a result. We 
can see that his face just lacked angularity, and  
now it is a lot more striking. Like we mentioned 
earlier, there is a 3D aspect to his face  
that is also night and day. His buccal region 
was a lot more ‘plump’ beforehand; the loss  
of facial fat helped accentuate deep contours 
and valleys around his cheeks, undereye region,  
chin, and glabella/brow area. The jaw especially 
has a lot more ‘depth’ and shadows around it. 
 
Chris’ Facial Width to Height ratio went down a 
considerable amount as his cheeks slimmed down.  
This can affect perceptions of masculinity, 
creativity, aggressiveness, and dominance,  
but it is not that big of a difference in this 
case. His face just looks taller and less bloated.  
Playing around in liquify, we can sort of 
manipulate the weight loss/gain just by  
altering the facial width and facial contours; 
it is not perfect, though. 
        
 
How does gaining facial fat 
change my facial proportions?
 
A face from this study by Rule et al. was altered 
to show a reduction in BMI. Personally, the edit  
does not seem to do a good job of showing that 
weight difference, but one major proportion did  
change. The eye spacing changes a decent amount, 
in that the interpupillary distance, or distance  
between the eyes, now makes up more of the facial 
width after weight loss. In essence, losing facial  
fat makes the eyes appear wider set, and larger. 
Derek, from more plates more dates also achieved a  
similar effect; his face seems slimmer, eyes seem 
larger, and even his jaw is proportionally wider.  
An overlooked aspect of facial attractiveness 
is retaining a wide jaw and compact midface  
appearance, despite the actual face being 
slimmer. That comes down to bone structure,  
whereas most people can achieve a wide jaw and 
midface if they just gain a lot of fat. This guy  
is an even more exaggerated example of this. This 
is because when we gain fat around our cheeks, our  
bizygomatic width, or how wide our face appears 
increases. Your face just gets ‘bigger’. This can  
sometimes work to your favor if you have really 
close set eyes that throw off facial harmony;  
losing weight may help offset it. Conversely, 
gaining weight may help offset overly wide set  
eyes. This guy made some drastic improvements 
in all parts of his face. His jaw got way more  
tapered, with a now discernable jaw frontal 
angle, whereas his jaw was round beforehand.  
His cheekbones now appear high and pronounced. 
The excess adipose tissue around the cheeks  
make the under eye region look hollower and more 
set back than it actually is. After weight loss,  
everything seems to even out more, while at the 
same time adding that element of ‘depth’. The  
buccal region and infraorbital region, or simply 
put, the midface, just appear way less pudgy;  
‘pinchable cheeks’ are a real thing. Since fat 
really likes to go in these areas, they are also  
one of the last areas to lose fat. Will Smith’s 
cheeks looked a lot more defined even after 20lbs  
of fat loss. Similar to the guy before, Derek 
achieved a more tapered and defined jaw by getting  
below 10% bodyfat; his jaw went from a rounded 
shape to a harmonious angle of inclination,  
all from about 70-80lbs of body fat loss. These 
types of transformation extremes are hard to come  
by as most people won’t venture that low. 
How does gaining fat affect the side profile?
 
Just like the front view, losing facial fat can 
make a huge improvement in your side profile. In  
major transformations, a person could essentially 
‘find’ their jawline. This guy goes from no  
discernable gonial angle or jaw whatsoever, to a 
clearly visible mandible, ramus, and jaw outline.  
Beyond that, his submental cervical angle, 
or the angle his neck makes with his jaw,  
completely changes. This is actually quite an 
important feature when it comes to perceived  
attractiveness, probably because it is strongly 
correlated with body fat levels and forward growth  
of the jaw. Research by Naini et al. show strong 
correlation between this angle and the facial  
aesthetic/attractiveness of a subject. An angle 
around 95 degrees is most pleasing, basically  
that firm and taught ‘look’ where you do not have 
hanging skin or fat. Liposuction or fat loss can  
lower this measurement by a good amount, even up 
to 20 degrees. An increase of this angle resulted  
in lowered perceived attractiveness. Usually 
hanging neck skin/fat is associated with both  
aging and body fat gain, so it makes sense. A 
study by Coleman et al. talks about the aging  
face, and we will probably have to make a whole 
other video on that, but decreased jaw definition,  
facial jowls, and a turkey neck are all common 
aging signs. The study even touches on the  
mentocervical angle worsening as the hyoid bone 
descends and the region below the jaw just seem to  
‘droop’. Since a defined jaw, and firm neck region 
are youthful features, fat gain can actually make  
you look older if the region below your jaw 
becomes too undefined. On top of this, a leaner  
face just looks more youthful in general. Being 
at a healthy body fat percentage will optimize  
your hormonal profile & general health; your 
skin, hair, eyebrow density, and general health  
indicators should improve as a result. 
So, How much weight should I lose? 
 
Well, it is actually not that simple. In a paper 
by Nicholas Rule and Daniel E. There were some  
interesting nuances found with how weight affects 
facial attractiveness. The simplest thing to note  
was that adiposity(aka your body fat levels) is 
strongly correlated with facial attractiveness.  
Underweight and Overweight faces were judged 
as less attractive than those with healthy BMI.  
The slightly discouraging takeaway from this 
study was that while people can notice even slight  
weight changes in your face, it takes a lot more 
weight gain to change your facial attractiveness.  
This does kindof make sense, as facial 
fat may be one of the last places to go.  
Most of your body fat is held below the shoulders; 
you have to lose a significant amount of body fat  
to really ‘show off’ facial gains. Most models 
are at the low end of the normal BMI range,  
or even sometimes underweight; this certainly 
brings out the bone structure for the  
‘runway’ look, but may not always maximize 
facial attractiveness. To appear lighter,  
a subject only had to lose about 1.3 BMI, but to 
appear more facially attractive it was about 2.5  
BMI. But the paper did not extend outside of the 
scope of North America, and it is well researched  
that cultural influence can affect the weight 
to facial attractiveness relationship. 
 
Lei et al. found that fat mass really only seems 
to affect facial masculinity in underweight men.  
Basically, facial fat can add some masculinity 
if a man looks overly gaunt or emaciated; we  
do seem to prefer defined, masculine faces in the 
West, but an overly gaunt face can signal illness,  
lack of food, and fragility, all of which are not 
attractive. Sometimes, losing weight is not the  
best ‘looks maxx’; being at a normal weight is 
almost always going to be more attractive than  
either extreme. While losing some extra weight 
within that normal range may add that ‘boost’ in  
attractiveness, there are trade offs to consider. 
A person should really consider their mental  
state and reasons for losing weight. It is well 
researched that improving one's attractiveness  
is a much larger motivator when it comes to weight 
loss than the actual health improvements. There is  
nothing wrong with that really, but if you are 
tunneled in on the attractiveness part, you can  
compromise on your mental and physical health. 
This model may look good in both photos, but  
she has noted her struggles with her body image 
and weight journey. Her face is arguably more  
attractive in the left photo as it is slimmer, 
more feminized, and more angular. However,  
the difference is not make or break, and certainly 
not worth developing an eating disorder over. This  
is an issue within the modeling industry where 
models, and even ourselves, have been conditioned  
to associate these extremes with beauty. While, 
yes, being lean maximizes facial attractiveness,  
research would not seem to support the extremes 
of Western modeling standards. Lastly, weight loss  
will look different for everyone. Your underlying 
bone structure will determine how contoured and  
angular your face looks at the end, and every 
step of the way. Some faces look a lot leaner  
than others despite being higher body fat. Losing 
body fat is probably one of the most worthwhile  
looks maxes, especially for those that are 
overweight. The 9-12% range for men and 17-20% for  
women generally maximizes facial attractiveness, 
while a bit above that will also do a comparable  
job. Getting above 16-17% or so for men and 
25% for women may start to detract from facial  
attractiveness, but everyone is different. Other 
channels probably can give a more detailed rundown  
of how to best go about losing body fat, as 
it is out of the scope of this video. 
 
If you would like to get your face assessed, 
discover how your body fat percentage affects  
your face or just get an indepth look into your 
face, order a QOVES facial evaluation over at our  
website, performed by our in-house team of doctors 
and dentists to help you achieve that next big  
glow-up. As always follow us on Instagram for 
bite-sized content and subscribe on youtube.

=== Why Your Face Looks 'Cute' Instead of 'Hot' ===
Qoves Facial Width to Height Ratio101
[In this episode…]
Have you ever wondered why certain faces just
look angry, intimidating or appear to have
an RBF.
There is a mathematical ratio of facial width
to height after which point cognitive psychologists
have found that we see these faces as appearing
aggressive looking or dangerous.
In this video we’re going tol be focusing
on the Facial-Width-To-Height ratio 
and how it connects to things like perceptions
of dominance, achievement drive, and other
social cues.
Is there a connection between testosterone
in men and FWHR?
After laying out that framework, we will tie
it all together and see how FWHR affects facial
attractiveness.
First off, What is the Facial Width to Height
Ratio (short FWHR)?
How do you measure it?
There are a lot of different ways to measure
the FWHR, but in general it is a measurement
of how wide and compact the midface appears.
Different researchers take the measurement
at different cephalometric points on the face,
and accordingly name the measurement FWHRnasion,
for example.
This actually matters a lot when we are talking
about the FWHR, because the measurement, and
its ties to sexual dimorphism can vary drastically
depending on the cephalometric points used.
Across all variations, the width of the face
must to be measured at the widest part of
the cheekbones, called the bizygomatic width.
Researchers will then divide that measurement
by the height of the midiface; the distance
from the upper lip, to a point near the brow
bone.
The FWHR measurement that is most contextually
relevant to attractiveness, dominance, and
sex differences is the FWHRbrow; this takes
the measurement at the low to mid eyebrow.
You can sort of see how this would lead to
a more elongated midface region, as higher
set eyebrows ‘space out’ the length of
one’s midface.
Likewise, men usually have eyebrows that are
closer to their eyes and would have a higher
FWHR on average.
Two faces we have looked at on this channel,
Johnny Depp and Sean o’ Pry are examples
of high FWHR due to low brows and wide facial
structure.
Keep this idea in mind as we take a look at
the research that uses different FWHR variations.
How does FWHR affect our social perception?
Most of the research regarding FWHR is done
within the realm of social perception, particularly
on stuff like trustworthiness, dominance,
and aggression.
Some studies also try to link the measurement
to creativity, but that has not been looked
at as much.
The resounding ‘idea’ in FWHR research
has been that it is associated with aggression.
However, this is not really true, at least
in the negative sense.
In fact, Ward and Alrajih found the strongest
association FWHR seems to have is with dominance,
especially tying into success and drive.
Ceo’s in the UK had greater FWHR and were
rated higher in dominance and success.
Lewis et al. also found a similar trend between
fwhr and achievement drive within former US
presidents.
Research by Stirrat et al. found that wider
faced males are less likely to die from contact
physical violence.
Perhaps something to do with facial width
cues into aggressiveness and male dominance.
A Thesis by philosophy PdD Carmen Lefevre
tried to find what biological features in
the face tie into perceptions of dominance
and trustworthiness.
Earlier research suggested two basic things
underlie the perception of someone's face;
dominance and trustworthiness.
Since FWHR had already been tied to those
two it was worth investigating.
What she found was achievement striving was
also related to FWHR, which gives a more positive
outlook than simply tying it to aggression.
FWHR seems to be more connected to dominance
traits than anything else.
Things like drive, ambition, achievement,
and winning.
This does not have to point to manipulative
or aggressive behavior, but we should not
rule that out either.
Geniole et al noted a connection between FWHR
and ‘judgements of aggression’ (so not
necessarily a person showing aggression).
People may be sensitive to recognizing a high
FWHR to quickly pick out who is aggressive
and who is not.
Then the judgments of trustworthiness come
secondary.
This image shows how having different facial
expressions can change your FWHR; so smiling
seems to increase your FWHR by raising the
upper lip and lowering the brows.
This is interesting because smiling doesn’t
usually equal dominance/aggression, but then
again maybe it does.
A sad face lowers FWHR which can give off
the impression of a less dominant face.
What does the research say about FWHR being
sexually dimorphic, or does it lean more feminine
or masculine?Is it associated with testosterone?
The research on FWHR tying into testosterone
levels in men is very conflicted, but most
research seems to note FWHR being a sexually
dimorphic measurement.
In other words, we can tell a male face vs.
a female face based on their facial width
and FWHR.
Kramer et al. failed to support the hypothesis
of sexual dimorphism in the FWHR, but if we
look closer at the methods of the paper they
seem to be using the FWHRnasion measurement
instead of the FWHRbrow.
What this will end up doing is standardizing
the results to be closer between men and women
than if they considered the sexually dimorphic
position of the eyebrows.
This is exactly what happens as we can see
the FWHR measurements are quite high in the
table.
We would most likely see some clear differences
in FWHR if using the FWHRbrow measurement.
Albert et al. did end up showing this in 2021;
FWHRbrow was much wider in pre-and post pubertal
males.
The reason for this was, as expected, large
sex differences in brow height, with females
having higher placed eyebrows.
As far as testosterone in males, Lefevre et
al. do show positive associations between
FWHR and testosterone reactions to potential
mate exposure in a speed-dating event.
How does FWHR play into facial attractiveness?
Valentine et al. studied the role of FWHR
in regards to dominance and Mate choice at
speed-dating events.
Indeed, Men’s FW HR was seen as more dominant,
gave the men a better chance of a second date,
and was more attractive to women in short
term, but not long term relationships.
This was in short-term relationships, but
how about for general attractiveness and female
attractiveness?
Just by observing the faces of attractive
male and female models in the West, most do
have high FWHR.
This is because Western beauty standards prefer
robust bone structures, wider faces, and bedroom
eyes.
You would find a totally different trend in
eastern beauty culture, where slightly lower
FWHR would be seen as more attractive; they
prefer slimmer faces, less angularity, and
more neotenous eye areas.
However, this does not mean they prefer a
‘long face’, most attractive east asians
also have a normal to high FWHR.
This is common sense, but a midface or face
that is too wide and bloated, or too narrow
and elongated, is not going to be found as
attractive.
This is where lying towards the ‘mathematical
average’ is going to appear more attractive.
Or more simply put, having a harmonious facial
width.
A FWHRbrow measurement too high can make your
face look alien-like and puffy.
Too low, and it starts to resemble a horse.
What is too high or too low, well it also
depends on a lot of other facial features,
but around 1.7-2.2 is pretty ‘normal’;
most attractive Western faces will be more
in the middle at about 1.9-2.1.
Through photoshop, we can alter Adrien Brody’s
low FWHR of about 1.6 to be a more normal
1.8 and give him a more conventionally attractive
midiface region.
How does weight affect my FWHR, and thus social
perceptions?
Gaining facial fat can round out the face,
giving an overall wider face, and higher FWHR.
You can also check out our video on ‘How
facial fat influences your looks’.
In this sense, adding FWHR will not increase
one’s attractiveness even though a higher
FWHR does seem to make a person appear more
dominant and attractive.
Anyone can achieve a higher FWHR by gaining
a lot of weight.
Jordan Barret, who already has a wide bone
structure, has an outlandishly high FWHR when
he puts on some extra facial fat.
Editing his facial width puts his FWHR in
a more harmonious zone.
In the study by Kramer et al. from earlier,
a relationship between BMI and FWHR was evident.
Facial fat and added soft tissue ‘conceals’
your ‘true’ FWHR by giving you a wider
face.
The same thing was found in the paper by Albert
et al., noting how further research must control
for BMI, and focus on the FWHRbrow measurement
to account for eyebrow differences.
They also noted how aging tends to elongate
the midface and lead to lower FWHR as everything
‘sags’.
In that sense, FWHR could also have some ties
to youthfulness.
________________
If you would like to get your face assessed,
discover whether your FWHR makes you appear
dominant, or just get an indepth look into
your face order a QOVES facial evaluation
over at our website, performed by our in-house
team of doctors and dentists to help you achieve
that next big glow-up.
As always follow us on Instagram for bite-sized
content and subscribe on youtube

=== How To Get Sharp Facial Features ===
This is you, maybe you’re 18 and you’re
on Youtube and type in “how to get a lean
jawline”.
You see Bretty Maverick giving you advice
on mewing.
You see Mariio Adrion sucking in his cheeks,
you see Alpha M doing…
whatever the hell this is.
If you’re a girl you see The Daily Student,
where in the before she’s deliberately smiling
and in the after she’s giving us her best
Zoolander look.
OppServe is literally tilting her head down
to giver herself a double chin, but she’s
so lean she can’t.
What I’m trying to say is that there is
a lot of misinformation on this topic, and
at QOVES, if you’re new here, I’m going
to give it to you straight like your dad should
have years ago.
In the west, we have a preference for sharp,
angular features, so wanting to lose facial
fat to expose your sharp bone structure underneath
is understandable, it is a Western criteria
of an attractive face, but herein lies our
first problem for why many of you don’t
get results.
You just don’t have the sharp bone structure
underneath.
Many of you watching are still young, so chances
are that you either reached your full facial
development yet.
Most faces stop developing at 25, but technically
your facial bones move all throughout your
life.
To achieve a lean, hollowed out look, your
bone structure has to be greater than your
facial leanness.
If you’ve ever seen a starving or emaciated
child, they are unfortunately very skinny,
but their facial development is juvenile,
because they’re children, obviously, not
adult male models.
The common myth of just starve yourself to
get hollow cheeks or look more mature is wrong,
you do need to be relatively lean, but your
bone structure is the more dermining factor.
A fitness science Youtuber, I personally quite
enjoy, Vitruvian Physique, has very defined
bone structure and even at higher bodyfat
the definition is still there.
Derek from the More Plates More Dates channel
once got down to absurdly lean but no disrespect
to Derek, his bone structure is not that remarkably
striking, and it’s apparent at his lean
levels.
At a much healthier bodyfat, his buccal corridors
do carry more fat, whereas Igor’s from the
first channels do not show it as easily, and
that’s because the jaw gonion, this landmark
of the jaw, is not very wide for Derek’s
and for most people.
This creates a convex shape, instead of the
desirable concave of hollow, modelling faces
which pulls the skin laterally outwards that
so many of you keep asking advice for.
If you fall into this first category of people
with insufficient facial development, a weak
jaw or narrow face then chances are you should
probably see an orthodontist first.
We’ve made countless videos on Orthodontic
topics from how diet influences your jawline
to bad sleeping habits that make your face
asymmetric, it’s not all genetics.
The oral habits that you develop from 6 months
to 17 years largely determine if you will
reach your genetic potential and most faces
do not.
If you have less than ideal bone structure,
see an orthodontist first because braces and
expanders may fix your structural issue.
If you want immediate results you can also
get gonion implants and cheek implants but
again, we’re trying to correct with surgery
what should have been with orthodontics in
your childhood and this a bandaid solution
too.
Lastly you can try orthotropic methods like
mewing to force your face to grow outwards,
but I recommend this last because you probably
want faster results and if you’re watching
this video now from teenage to adult-hood,
it requires more force, effort and time to
get results.
But let’s get back on track, the original
question was why your face never looks lean.
The most obvious answer is that you’re not
at a low enough bodyfat, but as I just showed
with the examples, even being in an absurdly
lean state is not enough to get a sharp enough
face.
If your jaw width is narrow, it simply won’t
pull the jawline skin, the submental and chin
sharp tightly enough to create an aesthetic
outline.
Same goes for the cheekbones, if they’re
flat, it won’t create an aesthetic Ogee
curve, the eyes and browbones and so many
other features are all dependent on having
a few mm extra of bone than the average person
to pull the fat and skin tight.
However, most of you are also young, meaning
that no matter how lean you get, you will
still have juvenile fat pads.
Baby-fat sticks around into your mid to late
20s, and it makes both men and women look
more neotenous.
This is an advantage to women as they can
stay youthful for longer, but a disadvantage
for men, as they generally want to look more
older and mature.
So if you’re after the hollow cheek look
or a sharp jawline, assuming that you’re
taking care of yourself now, that fat will
naturally shed in due time just be patient,
and once it does, you may find yourself even
missing it.
Another option is buccal fat pad removal,
but as Dr Linkov shows, many surgeons are
against it because the benefits are not worth
the risks.
Also aesthetically, it can make you look ghoulish
and overly gaunt as you age naturally and
the other baby-fat pads naturally disappear.
The last and most obvious reason that no one
wants to hear is that, realistically, you
carry too much fat for the look that you want.
Having worked in the modelling industry, you
come to appreciate the incredibly sacrifices
that the models with these desirable sharp
faces make when it comes to food.
Some meticulously track their calories eating
as little as 1500 a day, others practise one
meal a day protocol so that it’s impossible
for them to go over.
Some recreationally smoke to suppress appetite,
others use supplements like Yohimbe to satisfy
hunger cravings.
If it was easy, everyone would be able to
do it, and obviously none of this is healthy,
but to get a face like that, it’s a combination
of above average bone development and above
average leanness, not one without the other.
While Igor from Vitruvian physique looks aesthetically
pleasing even at higher bodyfat due to his
strong bone structure, it wouldn’t make
the cut as a model, also he’s very wide
and built, wouldnt fit into many clothes.
The face that most of you aspire to have is
unachievable for almost all of you.
These men and women are unusually tall with
higher caloric requirements but they also
eat less too.
I don’t think they starve themselves to
have a striking face, although that is a factor,
but rather to fit into clothes, because most
male models are not allowed to gain muscle
either or else they will become too bulky,
it’s all about fitting into one size fits
all clothes, and if you cannot, then you lose
out on income.
If you had that fear weighing over your head,
I doubt you would eat much either.
Just to clarify this video is not promoting
you to starve yourself or to develop an eating
disorder.
However you need to be realistic in realising
the sacrifices that go on behind the scenes
to achieve an unachievable look.
If you want a second opinion on your looks,
order an aesthetics report over at our website
and one of our clinicians can take a look
to give you advice on your looks.

=== All Eye Colours Are Overrated ===
Eye Color, Does it matter?
Does eye color affect attractiveness?
Eye color is probably the most easily identifiable
trait a layperson could pick out if you asked
them what makes somebody attractive.
However, we will come to see the fault in
equating this phenomenon with blue eyes being
the most attractive eye color.
This video will likely ruffle some feathers.
I don’t know why, because it shouldn’t,
but people tend to take pride in their eye
color being unique to them.
A lot of you have probably even complimented
others on their eye color making them attractive.
At the end of the day, your dentofacial growth,
health indicators, cephalometric proportions,
and general sexual dimorphism will determine
how unique and attractive your face is.
Trying to place eye color on the same plane
as these things is a false equivalence.
There is no evidence to suggest eye color
is as influential as your jaw morphology,
skin quality, zygomatic bones, nose, or lips.
That is not really what we are trying to assess
here anyways.
Assuming all things equal, does having blue
eyes, or colored eyes in general, provide
that little cherry on top?
Does eye color change your attractiveness
at all?
There are only two terms you really have to
keep in mind here; they are the Iris of the
eyes, or colored portion of the eye, and the
sclera, or whites of the eyes.
These two are really the only varying ‘colors’
of the eye.
How does changing the eye color of models
affect their beauty?
A study by Feinman and Gill at the University
of Wyoming sought to find sex differences
in physical attractiveness preferences.
They really honed in on coloration preferences:
eyes, hair, and complexion.
The researchers studied the likes and dislikes
male and female respondents made on different
eye colors.
The results were very significant, indicated
by the low P values.
Females tended to prefer or like men with
dark eyes, while men tended to prefer women
with the lightest eyes.
When it came to dislikes, males tended to
dislike dark eyes and females light eyes.
Table 1 illustrates how prominent this preference
really is.
Highlighted in yellow the females actually
preferred brown eyes the most in men, with
dark blue a close second.
The males liked light blue eyes the most in
females, but brown was a very close second,
and none of the other colors trailed too far
behind.
This tells us that the males are a little
less discerning in their eye color preferences.
Well, there is one caveat; black eyes were
liked less than 4% of the time, and disliked
the most in females by male counterparts.
Females didn’t seem to dislike black eyes
as much.
This was probably the most surprising part;
females actually disliked light blue eyes
in males a good amount more than they disliked
black eyes.
To sum up the results from Feinman and Gill,
there does seem to be a confirmation of the
general ‘ideal’ of darker features being
preferred in men and lighter features being
preferred in women.
This can be sort of demonstrated in women
tending to dye their hair lighter.
There is an association between ‘man’
and dark color shades, and ‘women’ and
lighter color shades.
On eye color specifically, if we are speaking
generally, brown eyes seem to be the most
consistently attractive eye color.
Still, there is no notable gap between the
other colors, and the effect is probably not
that influential to overall facial attractiveness.
Rather, when the participants are asked to
make slight like vs dislike preferential judgements,
they are really narrowing in on something
that does not really play into facial beauty
that much.
What about other factors or colors in the
eye besides the iris?
Research by Grundl et al., would align with
this theory.
Their paper titled “The Blue eyes stereotype:
Do eye color, Pupil diameter, and scleral
color affect attractiveness?”.
Actually shows that even within the eyes themselves,
eye color is not that important when judging
attractiveness.
If we broaden that idea even more, eye color
really is quite negligible in the grand scheme
of things.
Table 1 shows how attractiveness correlates
with different factors in the eye area.
The thing that jumps off the screen is that
a person’s real age is highly negatively
correlated with attractiveness.
This means older equals less attractive eyes.
Perceived age even more so showed older equals
less attractive.
It does not really come as a surprise that
older looking eyes are not as attractive:
whether that be scleral show, upper eyelid
exposure, eye ‘glow’, wrinkles, eye bags,
lack of eyelashes, or lack of brows.
A lot of coloration qualities like saturation,
brightness, blueness, and hue of the iris
were statistically non-significant.
Surprisingly, the sclera or whites of the
eyes was negatively correlated with attractiveness.
This makes sense as the sclera of the eye
are much more of a health indicator than the
iris color.
Yellowish, darker scleral color can signal
dehydration or other health defects.
Blue sclera color can signal iron deficiency.
Veins, and other discoloration can be due
to lack of sleep.
If your sclera is not clear, there is likely
something negative going on with your health.
Table 2 shows the attractiveness value of
brown vs blue eyes.
First, these results were not significant,
but they also showed minimal difference.
Blue eyes received ever so slightly higher
assessments of attractiveness on average,
but brown eyes have a slightly higher range,
or ‘max possible’ attractiveness(within
1 Standard deviation).
The big difference comes in table 3; Blue
eyes were overwhelmingly chosen when respondents
were asked “which features of this eye area
do you find particularly attractive?”.
These results were significant, so the respondents
really did believe their answers to this question.
The main takeaway of this study was that a
younger looking eye area is perceived as most
beautiful.
As far as eye color, blue eyes were not rated
more attractive than other colors.
The results from table 2 demonstrate something
called the ‘blue-eyes stereotype”.
People believe blue eyes make eye areas attractive,
but when it came to actual judging, the color
of the iris did not even really factor in.
The true attractiveness of the eyes comes
down to how youthful they look; a clear and
healthy sclera is on e of these factors, as
the ‘glow’ of the sclera can start to
diminish with age.
Preference would seem to play a larger role
in iris color attractiveness, than say a jawline.
A defined, forward grown jaw will almost always
be chosen as more attractive than a downward
grown jaw with 
a lot of facial fat.
So we cannot extrapolate the results of these
studies to say that the cheekbones and how
high or low they are are purely subjective
in how they affect facial attractiveness.
Eye color would seem to be a unique facial
feature in this respect; even hair color has
a large preferential swing.
The eyes are so uniquely us; since the iris
color is one of the most interpersonally variable
and captivating colors in the human face,
it obviously receives a lot of societal attention..
Most people do not even know what the sclera
is, so the eye color is usually the first
thing an 
average person could spell out.
For the average person the 
eye area usually just boils down 
to your eye color.
eyebrows, and eyelashes.
There is not really anything wrong with that,
we 
are not all scientists, but 
being able to discern prejudice from reality
does help when trying to assess attractiveness.
Further research does need to be done, especially
as it relates to the rarity of certain eye
colors within ethnic groups.
If you would like to get your face assessed,
discover your eye youthfulness indicators,
or just get an indepth look into your face,
order a QOVES facial evaluation over at our
website, performed by our in-house team of
doctors and dentists to help you achieve that
next big glow-up.
As always follow us on Instagram for bite-sized
content and subscribe on youtube.

=== Private video ===
Transcripts are disabled for this video.

=== 5 Reasons Why Men Look Softer Today | Biology of Beauty ===
why did our human ancestors go from
looking like cavemen to looking very
soft and pushy
apologroom explains Morgan and carrier
in a contentious 2013 paper proposed
that facial robusticity for men in the
jaw cheekbones and around the eyes
evolved in order to offer protection for
blows or punches to the face rather than
a greater ability to chew hard Foods as
have been previously believed there are
five reasons for this firstly it's
mostly men who fight and the areas
around the face where they are most
different or dimorphic than women are
particularly robust it is easy to see
how many of these traits could protect
you in a fight especially important
organs like the eyes these also happen
to be the parts of the skull that
exhibit the greatest increase in
robasticity during the evolution of
early hominins secondly epidemiological
data indicates that in modern societies
violence is the most frequent cause of
fracture to the facial skeleton and the
fist is the weapon most often used
causing around half to two-thirds of the
fight-associated facial fractures
suggesting that fists are actually a
very important weapon in human conflict
the primary targets as from any boxing
match is of course to face thirdly
fossil records of early humans suggest
that the early human face was actually
not adapted to crack hard Foods as
microwave patterned on the teeth of
early human species suggests that they
actually rarely fed on hard objects but
rather soft foods like fruit and it is
also suggested that the greater level of
facial buttressing in robust humans May
indicate a more polygenous mating fist
for example as men fight over more women
4. the laser evolution of reduced
robusticity of the face is associated
with the evolution of reduced strength
of the upper body and arms both these
Trends may be a consequence of the
invention of better weapons that
decrease the importance of physical
strength and power during fighting which
in turn reduce facial robusticity as
though as a decreased need to protect
face
instead facial expressiveness and
trustworthiness was selected for as
humans became more Cooperative hence
men's more androgynous look over time
5. this hypothesis is consistent with
the facts that we can accurately assess
a man's strength and fighting ability
from facial shape and voice quality
because success often involves not
fighting in the first place facial shape
and voice may also convey relevant
information to potential opponents about
their ability to defend themselves in a
fight and not sustain damage in other
words an individual may be more
formidable simply because his face is
more resistant to injury so to conclude
it appears that according to this paper
the face may have become less robust not
because our Foods became softer but
because we became more cooperative and
intelligent and began to use weapons
rather than fists to hurt each other
we therefore had less need for our faces
to be robust and there became more
scopes for faces to become prissier and
more androgynous over time
the question of whether Kim Jong-un
looks so adorable because of his
acquisition of nuclear weapons is a
question potentially answered by science
but given this why do relatively minor
differences in the Sexes still exist and
why is low body fat needed to convey
important information about the face in
light of this to hear more about this
topic in more depth and other topics
such as the relationship between
narcissism and attractiveness why less
attractive people earn more and why we
as humans lost our body hair subscribe
to our podcast below

=== Do Glasses Actually Make You Less Attractive? ===
billions of people around the world use
glasses to correct their visual
impairment but according to hashemi and
colleagues the prevalence of conditions
such as myopia have increased
dramatically over the last decades
consequently the usage of glasses has
seen a boost and so according to the
vision Council of America 50 of women
and 42 percent of men wear glasses the
European Council of Optometry and optic
state that almost half of the European
population wears glasses the glasses
have become a fashion accessory at this
point with an increasing number of
people wearing them for aesthetic
reasons as vandalad and colleagues
discuss the use of facial accessories
such as your piercings and your glasses
have a huge impact in the way people are
perceived by others in fact we make
incredibly fast judgments about one's
appearance within just a tenth of a
second of seeing their face and in that
time we form an opinion that is very
difficult to change afterwards this one
shown by Willis and colleagues in their
paper First Impressions making up your
mind after 300 millisecond exposure to a
face so have you wondered if wearing
glasses actually makes you more
attractive in this 100 millisecond
period and does it help you look better
in the eyes of other people if so does
it affect the probabilities of getting
an interview for a new job for example
whether or not glasses make you more
attractive is actually a very
complicated question but the answer
depends on many indicative factors such
as age gender ethnicity and education
level or more specifically just the type
of glasses used can change the way
you're perceived so let's take a look at
what the scientists who have been trying
to answer this question many years have
to say about it there is a stereotype
that wearing glasses makes individuals
look less attractive but it does enhance
their other traits such as intelligence
and from other studies we know that
intelligence is an attractive trait so
which one is it the idea has some
scientific Merit to it as stated in the
paper by shul the influences of glasses
in the perception of professionals from
different cultural backgrounds however
scientific results regarding the effect
of glasses on attractiveness are not
consistent in other research we see that
making a spectacle of yourself the
effect of glasses and sunglasses on
facial perceptions by Graham and
colleagues shows that individuals
wearing glasses are not considered less
attractive at all in addition it seems
that gender stereotypes have an
influence on the perception of the
appearance of a person who wears glasses
however the conclusions of these studies
are also very inconsistent for example
Borgen study reports a finding that
women without glasses were showed as
more attractive than men without glasses
and on the contrary another study shows
that men rated women who wear glasses as
more attractive than men who don't and
so these discrepancies may be due to the
fact that attractiveness is a broadly
defined concept which needs to be
defined in very specific ways for your
particular research study in his
research okamura mentions dimensions of
physical attractiveness which is an
important concept as Beauty and
youthfulness are not exactly the same
thing as defining attractiveness by say
dimorphism or symmetry it's possible
that the usage of glasses does affect
some dimensions of beauty or physical
attractiveness but not all of them it
may make you look less youthful but it
may also increase your facial symmetry
for example by hiding the asymmetries of
your eyes one of the dimensions of
attractiveness is related to age he and
colleagues studied the impact of aging
on facial attractiveness using empirical
and computational methods they confirm
the hypothesis that in general younger
faces are considered more attractive but
does wearing glasses affect the
dimension of youthfulness in a recent
study published in the Journal of eye
perception by Bruna and colleagues aim
to address the question they randomly
selected photographs of 25 male and
female faces from a public database and
used a digital aging filter to stimulate
two different competition older and
younger in addition they also digitally
added generic eyeglasses and sunglasses
to the face and afterwards 21 Men and 21
women were asked to report the estimated
age of both the young and old faces
displayed on the monitor with or without
the glasses the young Pacers were
perceived as 1.3 years older when the
glasses were added while adding glasses
to the old faces did not alter their
perceived age in other words the older
faces didn't look younger because they
had glasses added as for the sunglasses
they also didn't change the perceived
age of the younger faces but it did
reduce the perceived age of the older
Faces by 1.8 years although the
differences in perceived ages are small
these results suggest that wearing
glasses may have a Sly effect on one of
the dimensions of attractiveness which
is namely youthfulness in fact the
finding that sunglasses make older
people look younger maybe due to the
fact that dark glasses help to conceal
wrinkles around the eyes which are often
associated with aging it is important to
interpret results from this type of
study with a lot of caution as they
always have a very limited scope many
variables such as the ethnicity of the
eyeglass wearer or the Observer the
stars of the glass is used and the
influence of facial expression were not
controlled for so take that with a grain
of salt as we already mentioned The
Stereotype holds that wearing glasses
reduces perceived attractiveness but
increases the perception of other traits
like intelligence in the job World The
credibility of a candidate is likely to
be influenced by subtle visual cues in
the profile picture for example these
visual cues can affect an employer's
decision to hire them or not as
discussed by carers and colleagues in a
paper called LinkedIn and Facebook in
Belgium the influences and biases of
social network sites in Recruitment and
selection procedures so does wearing
glasses have an impact on the likelihood
of getting a job in such a study that's
exactly what Van Der land and colleagues
addressed in their work are spectacles
the female equivalent of beards for men
our spectacles in a LinkedIn profile
influences the likelihood of getting the
job in this study the authors analyzed
the perceived credit ability of a
candidate with and without glasses and
credibility is a broad concept which
generally includes things like expertise
trustworthiness and of course
attractiveness so their case study was a
job as a promotion model at a
promotional agency this position was
assumed to require attractiveness as a
characteristic trait of the applicant
because well it's a promotional job at a
promotional agency surprisingly the
authors found that the female candidates
in the study were perceived as more
credible for this job with the glasses
than without them which is interesting
because the idea is that glasses are
supposedly going to make you less
attractive so then why were they seen as
more credible for this job this result
goes against the author's expectations
as it opposes that type of stereotype
that glasses are making you less
attractive the possible explanation that
they provided is that the type of
glasses used in the study you know with
a thick Rim induced symmetry in the face
which is considered by many researchers
as an attribute of attractiveness the
authors conclude their analysis
indicates that job applicants should be
careful when choosing whether or not to
wear glasses in their profile pictures
and to also take into account the type
of job that they're intending to apply
for and the type of glasses that they
choose to represent their character
while some adults choose to wear glasses
even for aesthetic reasons even when
they don't really need them there is a
situation in life where kneading glasses
is a game changer namely in childhood in
schools negative stereotypical words are
often used to describe children who wear
glasses in their paper use of eyeglasses
among children in elementary school the
perceptions and behaviors coach bacheva
and colleagues analyze the issues
associated with wearing glasses at
school in the interviews with parents
and school workers they found that
eyewear is viewed as unattractive in
these environments and that there is a
social stigma associated with its use
many of the parents had negative
attitudes and feelings towards wearing
the glasses due to their own negative
experiences as children they removed
glasses being considered unattractive
when they were younger as well and so
these attitudes carry on to adulthood
some African-American parents stated
that having Vision impair Germans as a
child may have been associated with the
mental health issues such as lower
self-esteem as a result of This research
the authors recommended interventions to
promote the use of glasses in society as
an attractive Trend such as initiating
campaigns with public figures wearing
glasses to gain visibility and rendered
them as attractive and fashionable
basically changing the perception of
glasses in the public eye so it's
important to note that we're looking at
glasses as a concept from two different
angles one is that the research says
that classes in some way do have an
effect on youthfulness and they may also
improve symmetry in the face so from
that biological way classes are a
positive but socially we have this idea
that glasses are a negative because
they're nerdier they're associated with
nerdy things and for whatever reasons
those may be seen as bad things so
despite the social and biological
differences if we can make glasses more
acceptable socially then it's pretty
easy to say that glasses do make you
more attractive several of the videos on
our Channel explore the perceptions of
different facial traits it's interesting
to think whether perceptions remain
constant over time according to Graham
and colleagues which we mentioned
earlier glasses wearing has become more
fashionable in recent years and so
there's no longer that stigma that's
been attached previously in the past
there does seem to be a shift trending
with glasses in modern society becoming
more socially acceptable these novel
Trends may have a positive impact in
certain environments such as schools but
it doesn't really affect most of us
grown adults who aren't in school so to
answer the main question do glasses make
you more attractive well there's no easy
answer like we showed it from two
different angles it depends we
discovered that the impact of the use of
glasses on people's attractiveness is
influenced by many factors it depends
again on gender with women appearing to
be more affected than men it depends on
age as we've seen it affects directly
whether you are a kid or an adult as to
the youthfulness benefit that you get
from the glasses it also depends on
which attribute of attractiveness is
considered for examples glasses may
affect the perception of age but not
sexiness also trans and social
perceptions seem to change over time
nonetheless wearing glasses can have
significant implications at any stage of
life whether it be as a child in school
or as an adult searching for a job it
really doesn't matter now if you'd like
to learn a bit more about your face
shape and what type of glasses would
benefit you or if they don't benefit you
at all and you should go with contacts
well we have a standardized method of
analyzing that over at the curve's
website through our comprehensive
analysis and our reports which you can
get performed by a team of doctors and
dentists and get feedback to improve the
way that you look either cosmetically
surgically therapeutically or
non-surgically as always that's on the
website and I'll catch you in the next
one

=== [Guide] 5 Steps for a More Masculine Face ===
many scientific Studies have shown in
the past that men with more masculine
faces are seen as more attractive mature
and capable in fact Isabelle Scott and
colleagues in their paper does
masculinity matter found that by
manipulating sexual dimorphism which is
basically how masculine or feminine face
looks that a more masculinized version
of a man's face was indeed considered
more attractive and that exaggerated sex
typical male traits are preferred by
females in humans and although di parrot
and colleagues have showed that
masculine facial characteristics do
increase negative attributes relevant to
relationships and paternal investment in
male faces it seems that women tend to
prefer more masculine faces during the
most fertile phase of their menstrual
cycles so in simple speak there are
definitely very clear advantages to
having a more masculinized face although
having too masculine of a face as the
negative of making you be less likely to
be chosen for a long-term dating context
many features can tribute to a masculine
looking face and it's important that you
understand to actually make some
improvements a strong and defined
jawline is considered typically a sign
of masculinity in many cultures the
jawline is a defining feature that can
make your face look more angular
chiseled or overall more square-like as
Harvey and Sheldon Peck explain in their
paper a concept of facial Aesthetics a
prominent jawline can give the
appearance of a more structured and
defined facial development which is
often associated with masculinity the
reason for this is because men typically
have more robust facial features
oftentimes as Simon group covers in this
video to help with fighting off other
men so if you look scary chances are you
probably are scary however a detracting
factor is if one's facial fat levels are
too high the face will appear soft and
lose their robusticity where even if the
person has strong bone structure it's
hidden under facial fat Stephen and
colleagues in their scientific review
visual adiposity attractiveness and
health I learned that numerous Studies
have shown a significant negative
relationship between facial adiposity
AKA fat and facial masculinity and
attractiveness they describe a
curvilinear relationship between facial
adiposity and attractiveness meaning
that people on the extreme side of their
Spectrum AKA those who are underway or
overweight were considered less
spatially attractive by a significant
amount and so if you aim to achieve a
more masculinized appearance it's
essential to maintain a low enough body
fat percentage typically around the 10
to 12 percent to enhance the definition
of your bone structure why do we say the
10 to 12 percent well as we've covered
in this video with the research behind
it this is typically the most attractive
point of body fat to facial
attractiveness distribution where being
around the 10 to 12 percent you know say
13 14 or even 15 does have very
significant benefits to your physical
attractiveness however you also have to
keep in mind it's important that you
don't drop to an excessively low body
fat percentage as that's going to result
in a gaun appearance with insufficient
facial volume if you do achieve a low
body type percentage and you still don't
have diff binded angular facial
structures it could be due to an
excessive amount of buccal fat or an
underdeveloped bone structure
and an underdeveloped bone structure is
improved with dermal fillers implants or
more correctly with Orthodontics because
you really have to understand why is
your bone structure not properly
developed even though you're at a very
low body fat moving on to the next Point
let's talk about facial hair in this
video we covered what makes attractive
facial hair and we found that facial
hair is a sexually dimorphic trait
sexual dimorphism in facial Aesthetics
refers to the differences in facial
features between men and women
a study from Barnaby Dixon and
colleagues found that bearded faces had
higher dominance and masculinity ratings
than clean-shaven faces the study
examined the impact of three facial
metrics the first being the objectively
measured craniofacial masculinity which
is a complex way of saying how your
facial proportions make you look more
masculine or are they more of the
feminine side the facial width to high
ratio which is the width and the height
of your mid face and most importantly
the jaw sides when clean shaven on your
rating of attractiveness these ratings
of attractiveness masculinity and
dominance of 37 men were photographed
both clean shaven and with full beard
and the results showed that full beards
received higher ratings of masculinity
attractiveness and dominant compared to
clean shaven faces although in this
methodology we can criticize that a
clean-shaven face with strong robust
bone structure would probably actually
do better if that bone structure was
allowed to be exposed by not having a
beard compared to somebody who has weak
bone structure but is benefited by
having a beard so it does matter when
we're kind of advice they also analyzed
the impact of facial hair on a man's
face based on Dual size and found that
clean shaven vases with small jaws had
significantly lower ratings for
masculinity attractiveness and obviously
dominance and these ratings were
relatively similar in faces with beard
regardless of the jaw size this
indicates that growing a beard can
significantly increase perceived
masculinity especially in men with
smaller Jaws what if you're unable to
grow a beard well there are some
solutions the most commonly known FDA
approved is minoxidil which is a
vasodilator that basically increases
blood flow but it is worth mentioning
that not everyone will react the same to
Minoxidil because the enzyme that's
responsible for breaking down minoxidil
into compounds that can actually do the
job is sulfur transferase and not
everyone has equal amounts of sulfur
transferase meaning the effectiveness of
minoxidil will vary from person to
person you can actually do an enzyme
test to find out if minoxidil will even
work for you or how effectively it'll
work the third point to make is on neck
sizes and neck sizes are considered to
be again a sexually dimorphic trait they
separate men from women in fact many
studies such as sex-specific prediction
of neck muscle volumes by Zhang and
colleagues found that although men and
women have similar neck lengths men have
significantly larger neck circumferences
additionally they showed that total neck
muscle volume was on average 59 greater
in men than women another study by Amir
and colleagues also found that more
muscular necks are typically perceived
as more masculine and the reason for
this is because more muscular necks are
a trait that's commonly found in Med so
hopefully you can see that trend of
features that are found more commonly in
men are going to make you look obviously
more masculine you can observe the
differences that a thicker neck can make
to someone's face in these edited
examples and so to develop your neck
muscles you can perform neck exercises
such as their curls and neck extensions
at four sets per exercise three times a
week as as an accessory to your normal
routine but it is worth noting that the
neck is a sensitive region and you have
to exercise especially high levels of
caution when you're working out this
region when it comes to the nose its
shape and size is highly variable and in
a past video we've talked about how men
are penalized less for having a big nose
than women are because bigger noses are
again a sexually dimorphic trait that's
typically found on men more so than on
women although it may seem insignificant
and knows plays a crucial role in
determining whether someone appears more
masculine or feminine as it is again a
sexually dimorphic trait osdamir and
colleagues describe in their
anthropometric analysis of the nose that
men have a greater nasal Bridge length
total nasal length and overall larger
noses by size they also found that women
have higher nasophrontal and nasolabial
angles basically meaning that they're
more upturned and smaller with lower
levels of prominence and so although men
can generally get away with more nose
shapes and sizes a masculine appearance
of the nose typically has a larger size
angular dimensions a higher Bridge a
wider Bridge a larger dorsum and perhaps
even a nasal tip that's more downwards
without typically having a dorsal hump
for men with a shorter less prominent or
more upturned nose a non-surgical
rhinoplasty using dermal fillers could
be a great way to achieve a more
masculine proportion but on a personal
note it is worth mentioning that a more
feminized nose on a masculine looking
man isn't necessarily A Bad Thing could
add some much needed androgenicity some
feminine and masculine balance to the
face which isn't really going to be a
negative for your face that being said
non-surgical nasal remodeling using
fillers is very effective for this kind
of purpose and it's quite safely
performed in outpatient clinics with
good temporary results of up to six
months according to helmi in their
recent paper and most commonly from
other doctors themselves but the fifth
way that you can get a more masculinized
face there are many studies on what is
known as cheek augmentation techniques
for example in David M Whitehead and
colleagues paper which has shown that
more rounded face shapes and lower
angularity all do appear more feminine
and Youthful so if you want a more
masculinized face you basically have to
do the opposite of that additionally
other studies such as telling facial
metrics facial width is associated with
testosterone levels in men by Carmen
leftover and colleagues have found that
a high facial width to height ratio is
perceived as more masculine and also
seems to have a positive association
with testosterone basically in Practical
terms this means that your face is wider
than it is tall just think of how the
Bugatti is designed you see how the eyes
are very narrow and the face is very
wide at the front well imagine that on a
man and that's why that's what you get
by a hide facial with the high Ratio or
if you want another example just look at
UFC fighters they all have high fish
width to height ratios and we've spoken
that there is a correlation maybe an
accidental correlation where a
correlation nonetheless at UFC fighters
and generally most types of MMA fighters
have some sort of increased facial width
perhaps making them stronger and more
resistant tooth blows to the head so
therefore it appears that the
proportions and shapes of a face do play
a significant role in determining
perceived masculinity and playing with
facial proportions does have the effect
of making someone look more or less
masculine for example in our previous
video we spoke about how facial fat
makes the face look wider in an
undesirable way rounding out the face
and thus reducing the effective
proportion of the facial midface that
works to your disadvantage and that's
why as most men you want to follow rule
1 and stay lean as possible men with
round face shapes should avoid very
short hairstyles like Buzz Cuts as they
tend to emphasize the roundness of your
face and conversely men with long narrow
face shapes should avoid longer
hairstyles as they make the face look
well obviously longer so lowering the
facial width to high ratio and making
the face appear less masculine is
typically worse when you have the longer
hairstyle however most importantly it's
worth mentioning that facial masculinity
does not always equate to facial
attractiveness when we say there is a
correlation it does not mean one to one
It means that there is some tie that
looking more masculine will benefit you
in looking more attractive but this
obviously goes up to a limit and a more
masculine face does not guarantee
greater mating success with the opposite
sex this is largely dependent on many
other factors which we cover on this
channel such as mating strategies the
stage of menstrual cycles and individual
preferences which as women have shown
preferential differences for wanting a
more masculine looking man at this stage
of the cycle and a less masculine man at
that stage and in general women do have
obviously different preferences
depending on geographical region and
socioeconomic factors as well but as a
general rule and this is not scientific
just from personal conjecture the reason
why as a man you would want to make your
face look more masculine threatening or
menacing is not for women but rather for
other men by looking more aggressive
scary to a limit looking more competent
you can scare away other men from
basically interrupting you you can
reduce the likeliness of what's known as
heterosexual make competition where
other men try to interrupt your business
they might try to steal your girl they
might try to start fighting a bar that
kind of thing basically if you look more
masculine you'll you'll seem like less
of a threat so that is the main benefit
for wanting to look more masculine apart
from sexual preferences that being said
if you want to learn more about how
masculine your face is well you can
order a crew's aesthetic analysis from
our team of doctors and dentists and
they'll take a look and give you some
feedback on your proportions your facial
dimorphisms your symmetries
all those factors that make a face
attractive and how you can improve the
way you look based on your physical and
aesthetic goals that's over at the
coup's website as always I'll catch you
all in the next one

=== 6 Features That Make Men Handsome ===
do you think women would prefer this
face or this one or perhaps both what
makes a man attractive tends to be more
controversial than what makes a woman
attractive male Beauty does not always
equate to masculinity as masculinity can
signal both positive and negative
aspects for example a man may be
appearing more masculine stronger and
dominant but he could also have the
negative traits of higher testosterone
leading to more aggressive and dangerous
and so for a feminine partner this can
present a trade-off that they have to
consider between the positive and the
negative and this is a very well
established theory in sociobiology as a
result women's definition of
attractiveness is actually quite
variable some prefer more masculine
traits such as thick eyebrows or
rectangular eyes while others may prefer
more feminized traits such as a rounded
nose or Fuller lips so what do women
prefer well-defined and smooth features
a bearded or clean-shaven face of mature
or youthful appearance a more masculine
or the more androgynous pretty boy look
in this video we're going to try to talk
a bit about male beauty standards that
do exist in the scientific literature
perhaps the most important indicators of
masculinity and attractiveness in men
are those that are related to the
overall size and shape of the face such
as the mandibular prominent or the
jawline these physical traits are often
associated with an individual's hormonal
levels and serve as signs of dominant
maturity and virility for example having
high levels of body fat will disguise
the face and it's very apparent to see
and we can logically assume that you're
probably not as athletic the size of the
chin is related to attractiveness in men
several studies have found that a large
chin area both in length and width is a
desirable feature another important
trait associated with the perception of
facial attractiveness is chin prominent
which refers to the degree in which the
chin extends in relation to the rest of
the face this can be measured by
considering the different elements of
the face 90 and colleagues found that
the most attractive faces were those
with chains of average protrusion this
means that the chin with an extension
similar to those that you would find in
the majority of the population was
considered the most attractive while
faces with mild deviations from the
average retained some of their
attractiveness the greater the deviation
the less attractive the face was
interestingly the effects of retrosion
was more pronounced than the effects of
protrusion so having a chin that is too
far forward is not as much of a negative
as having a chin that is not far enough
another feature that impacts
attractiveness is the shape and
prominence of the jaw men typically have
wider Jaws than women so a wide jaw is a
sign of masculinity when gilsky and
colleagues discovered that Jawbone
prominence in facial high are two of the
three most important features for
perceptions of masculinity the other
being eyebrow thickness
windhager and colleagues studied the
influence of dual shape on perceptions
of attractiveness in their paper
geometric morphometrics of male facial
shape in relation to physical strength
and attractiveness the authors analyzed
different types of male profiles Strong
high body fat dominant masculine and
attractive heavyset profiles share a
prominent lower jaw but the jawline is
rounder in men with higher body fat and
more angular in strong individuals on
the other hand slender faces have the
more angular jaw lines compared to the
heavy surfaces in other words a rounded
lower third is a sign of higher body fat
which is considered an undesirable
characteristic for sexual attractiveness
interestingly the authors found that the
most attractive profile was the one that
had a narrower jaw and an angular
well-defined jawline on the other hand
women tend to rate male faces with a
prominent lower jaw as more dominant but
not necessarily as more attractive think
of the drill sergeant Minecraft Steve
square jaw compared to maybe say K-pop
boy band member who has a more feminized
but slender and attractive jawline which
one would women more likely choose
probably not the drill sergeant jaw
finally cheekbone prominence while still
having an impact on perceived
masculinity and attractiveness was found
to be less important in conclusion
features in the lower third of the face
particularly this shape and size of the
jaw and the chin as well as the overall
facial height are important indicators
of male facial attractiveness
one of the most distinct characteristics
of male faces is the presence of facial
hair so what is the impact of facial
hair and attractiveness beards generally
considered signals of both positive
aspects such as experience or dominance
and negative ones such as aggressiveness
in a study conducted by Dixon and
colleagues titled the masculinity
Paradox the author studied several
aspects of facial hair in men they
arrived at the interesting conclusion
that lie in heavy stubble faces were
more attractive than either full bearded
and clean-shaven faces in other words
the amount of hair that you have on your
face does matter in addition by
digitally manipulating the photographs
used in the study they discovered
they're very masculine and very feminine
male faces were less attractive than
faces of average masculinity when they
were clean-shaven this implies that
beards disguise extreme masculine or
feminine traits presenting the face as
more smooth Dow or average and therefore
making it more attractive not only does
the amount of facial hair matter but it
also matters in regards to its
distribution the same authors described
in their paper the role of facial and
body hair distribution in women's
judgments of male sexual attractiveness
that men with more evenly and
continuously distributed facial hair
were perceived as more sexually
attractive than individuals with the
more patchy hair that should be common
sense to most men in this video we also
showed that having a beard was
beneficial for men with smaller jaw
lines and significantly increase their
attractiveness and masculinity
in conclusion having a beard can
definitely impact a man's attractiveness
and masculinity although the results are
different depending on his underlying
bone structure and paying attention to
that actually matters a lot more on
whether you should have a beard or not
people usually focus on the eyes when
first seeing a face while big eyes are
considered a sign of femininity for
women masculinity is typically
associated with a smaller more
rectangular eye size compared to the
roundness of the eye itself when it
comes to male attractiveness women's
preference for eye size also depends on
the context for example cuttingham and
colleagues found in their Pioneer paper
what do women want that generally women
prefer larger eyes in both in high and
width that is the more feminine eye
shape however mogilski and colleagues
found that smaller more masculinized
eyes were preferred in the context of
short-term dating this aligns with an
important characteristic of masculinity
perception which we have discovered in
other videos that more masculine traits
are considered attractive for short-term
dating prospects think of one night
stands hookups that kind of culture
whereas they are less preferential in
long-term dating prospects such as
marriage or a lifelong partner despite
these discrepancies both authors agree
that eye size is an important aspect of
male facial attractiveness another
related feature is eyebrow thickness
where interestingly mcgillskin
colleagues found that this feature is
even more important than eye size as a
signal of masculinity this means that
having thick eyebrows is a stronger
indicator of masculinity than having the
masculine eye shape so when it comes to
the eye color itself we've also made a
video on that topic on the channel
the mouth is the central feature of the
lower third of the face and it often
captures some of the most attention
making an important first impression
masculinity is often associated with an
ellipse on average which is often
considered a sign of dominance male
faces with thin lips are sometimes rated
as more attractive than those with thick
lips because men typically don't have
thick voluptuous lips compared to women
however some Studies have shown that
male faces with full ellipse can also be
considered attractive so which one is it
therefore it appears that the size of
the lips doesn't significantly have a
determining Factor on attractiveness as
long as they are within proportion as
the ratings of attractiveness do vary
depending on other features of the mouth
itself not just this volume of the lips
so with that in mind the size of the
mouth does impact attractiveness grammar
and colleagues have found that men with
wider mouths are considered more
attractive possibly because this feature
is associated with good health and more
importantly with proportion therefore
mount size is a robust indicator of
attractiveness more so than lip size an
interesting question is whether Dental
Aesthetics have any impact on male
attractiveness it is reasonable to
expect that men with better dentition in
other words teeth and gum health are
considered more attractive however how
significant is the impact of this Dental
appearance
in Baker and colleagues paper objective
assessment of the contribution of dental
Aesthetics and facial attractiveness in
men via eye tracking
their experiment the subjects were
ranked according to their facial
attractiveness and the level of dental
treatment that they required then the
author showed these pictures to women
and used eye tracking technology to find
out which areas of the face captured
more attention for both highly
attractive and unattractive men women
paid attention to facial features in the
following order the eyes the mouth and
the nose however for men of average
attractiveness the attention shifted to
the mouth this means that for average
men women pay more attention to the
mouth and thus Dental Aesthetics
do have a very important role on your
facial appearance in addition the effect
depends on the level of dental treatment
needed by the subject himself the most
severe conditions visual attention was
shifted to the mouth irrespective of the
overall attractiveness level and perhaps
you've seen this for yourself where
somebody may have a very beautiful face
but they open their mouth and their
teeth may not be in the best shape and
that does unfairly capture a lot of
attention this means that if the dental
status of the individual is severe no
matter how attractive he is he will most
likely benefit from the dental treatment
interestingly visual attention to the
mouth of feminine faces were never
exceeded that compared to the eye these
results suggest that in men the
attention to an anesthetic dentition is
more pronounced and that Dental
Aesthetics have more of an influence on
men than does on women
let's talk about the nose so the nose is
the central feature of the face and it's
very eye-catching as with other traits
while there is consensus that a slim and
small nose is an attractive feature on
women because women typically have
smaller noses than men making it a
sexually dimorphic feature it seems that
men can get away with a lot more nose
shapes and sizes in agreement with this
idea Cunningham and colleagues found in
their research that the nose is a poor
predictor of attractiveness meaning that
they did not find a strong correlation
between nose size and perceived
attractiveness in men just look at
Adrian Brody on the other hand grammar
and colleague states that a large nose
just like a wide mouth is indicative of
good health and therefore it is
considered attractive however some
Studies have found that male faces which
were feminized by reducing the no size
were perceived as again more attractive
just like the lips this one really
depends on the face itself and other
features so unlike women apparently no
size is not a particularly important
trait with respect to attractiveness in
men and men do get away with a lot more
when it regards the nose shape itself as
long as it is within the average
proportion and size that's seen in the
male population and it doesn't disturb
the overall symmetry of the face
a rather unusual but quite interesting
trait that can impact attractiveness is
facial scarring many Studies have shown
that in Western societies facial
scarring has a negative impact on
attractiveness since it provides
evidence of past trauma or illness and
may suggest a risk-taking personality
which can be considered undesirable in
long-term dating prospects however in
the paper titled facial scarring
enhances males attractiveness for
short-term relationships Burris and
colleagues show that post-traumatic
scarring even non-severe facial scarring
can enhance perceptions of
attractiveness in men for short term but
not for long-term relationships as it
could be considered a sign of
masculinity violence aggression all of
the negative aspects basically culminate
into the scarring this means that as
long as the scars are superficial in
other words not deformatory or cause
deformation of the face women can
consider them to be attractive in
potential short-term Partners we've made
a full video on the subject which you'd
like to know more about or the influence
on facial attractiveness that's the one
to watch interestingly facial scarring
did not enhance perceptions of
attractiveness on feminine subjects
where the study provides an interesting
example of an unexpected feature that
under certain context could make a face
more attractive especially for men so to
round out this video women are attracted
to men who exhibit a variety of
attributes physically speaking and the
different traits are preferred in
different situations there is a
significant influence on The Dating
context when it comes to women's
preferences in men this means that women
prefer different types of men for
short-term versus long-term dating
prospects under certain circumstances
particularly for short-term
relationships women tend to seek men who
are more sexually matured and dominant
perhaps maybe for protection aggression
or just risk-taking behavior in these
situations male attractiveness is
related to features that Express
maturity and dominance such as a larger
chin and jaw or thicker facial hair on
the other hand women sometimes refer
less massive faces especially in a
long-term major context features such as
larger eyes or a smaller nose which
reflect General babyishness immaturity
in neotony Express these attributes
which could link to being a more
empathetic father figure for children
later on and so if you'd like to learn
more about your facial features whether
you fall into the first or the second
category how you can change the way that
you look and overall get a general
assessment of your facial
characteristics you can head over to the
crew's website and get a report
performed by a team of doctors and
dentists for a analysis and breakdown of
your face as always that's on the curves
website and I'll catch you all in the
next one

=== People Can Guess Body Fat From Faces Only ===
today we're gonna take a look at how
your body composition affects your face
well namely does the body composition
affect facial attractiveness when we
talk about body composition we're mostly
referring to two factors body fat and
muscle mass your body is also comprised
of other things like water organs and
bone mass but these are less subject to
variation because they're rigid one
thing we can control is the relative
amount of body fat and muscle in our
body and this is where the idea of body
composition comes from so does this
actually make you look more attractive
these two factors have a large influence
on how your face appears and we're going
to first examine the preferred amount of
body fat and muscular content that is
found to be most attractive in the
present research this is typically done
by standardized assessments of body fat
percentage and using scales like the BMI
scale and we're then going to see how
different levels of body composition
affect our facial appearances firstly
we've got to establish what the
preferred body composition is in male
and female subjects this obviously isn't
a set number but rather a range of
values carrying high amounts of fat
tissue is not going to be as attractive
to the average person similarly carrying
extremely low amounts of body fat can
also be associated with disease weak
immune function and poor bodily cushion
and insulation like with most human
bodily features there is a middle ground
that tends to maximize attractiveness
and health but drawing that line is a
difficult task in order to visually
assess roughly what your body fat
percentage is the mid trunk and lower
trunk area serve as a generally good
guideline this is because most people
hold that around the stomach and if
you're a woman the lower trunk area will
serve as a better indicator a man tends
to lose fat in the abdominal region
first this difference can be attributed
to hormonal variation between the Sexes
and women also carry more fat than men
in general thus the ideal body fat in
women will be around seven percent
higher than in men research by fares and
Bartholomew found that the ways to hip
ratio body fat percentage and BMI are
all predictive correlates of female
attractiveness body fat and waist to hip
ratio are the most significant
predictors of attractiveness but IFA is
arguably the most important since it
affects a lot of other bodily and facial
features the study presented different
levels of waist to hip ratio across
different body fat percentages and past
research has often confounded waist to
hip ratio with body fat leading to
inaccurate results the most attractive
images had a body fat percentage of 23
percent and a low waist to hip ratio of
0.68 and a somewhat low BMI of 19. this
describes a slender yet curvy women with
athletic body fat percentages model
Senna gidly fits this build at about 5
foot 10 and 130 pounds however there
were other body compositions that were
similarly attractive and 20 body fat
with 22 BMI is a bit leaner but with
more muscle content than the previous
and this was also found to be attractive
in the study
from the result the 20 to 25 range was
the most attractive for women and in men
this is correlating to the 10 to 14
range which is consistent with past
research and medical guidelines however
around the middle of the range seems to
be the most attractive but if our
percentages up to 32 can be still
somewhat attractive for women but it
steeply drops off and it depends quite
much on the person itself
however there are limitations to the
study the study did not factor in things
that provide feedback on attractiveness
like head size shape and other bodily
variations this paper also doesn't tell
us how the body fat percentages affect
facial attractiveness research on that
front is actually quite lacking but one
paper about rantala ital 2013 discovered
that a curvilinear association between
body fat and facial attractiveness does
exist for women this simply means that
either being too thin or too fat reduces
facial attractiveness substantially On a
related note men's facial attractiveness
May queue into immune responses that was
not the case for women however but
women's facial attractiveness is
associated with long-term health and
fertility this is why an intermediary
range of body fat is intuitively the
most attractive for both men and women
because it is normal but also healthy
so moving on we can safely assume that
the middle ground range of body fat
percentages also makes the face appear
most attractive because of Western
beauty standards will typically look its
best in the lower ranges of 15 to 25
percent for women and 8 to 17 for men
because we have a preference for Sharp
angular features which you typically see
at the lower body fat levels
additionally the face does seem to be
quite sensitive to weight gain facial
definition can become obscured quite
easily and anyone that has gained 20
pounds can attest to that everyone holds
that slightly differently but as a
general rule a base at above 30 body fat
can appear quite rounded so perhaps
being lower within the ideal range of
body fat percentages will accentuate the
facial structure more that's not a crazy
idea to think of and this is where most
fashion models seem to lie with men
being around the 9 to 12 body fat range
and women being almost below 18 in some
extreme cases and models also typically
have lower BMI due to little musculature
development thus the their faces can
appear less full or even gaunt and that
doesn't apply to all models but this
phenomenon is certainly more common
among fashion models in women this
reasonable yet angular range could be
between 16 to 22 percent but again it
depends on the development of the bone
structure in men usually the 8 to 14
range tends to bring out facial
definition the most being right in the
middle of these ranges seems to be the
best compromise between facial
definition health and having an
attractive maintainable body spraying
from the range will result in a steady
drop-off in both bodily and facial
attractiveness and that's something we
see time and time again in the research
literature the study by Bartholomew and
fairies indicates that being above 38
body fat in women seems to yield the
lowest attractiveness ratings in men
this would likely be about the 30 Mark
the first way their body composition
affects our face is through body fat
leaner faces tend to appear more angular
similar to how being lean makes the
abdominal region your six-pack appear
more robust and defined most female
Olympic track athletes will still have
low body fat percentages in that 15 to
18 range the men also have lean builds
near the 8 to 11 percent range and this
brings out their facial angularity the
ideal athletic body fat percentage
really depends on the sport but is safe
to assume that most athletes are in that
healthy low body fat range some events
like long distance running they were
even leaner and lighter build and there
you'll find body fat percentages in the
14 to 16 range and low BMI this is done
for the intentional purpose and doesn't
necessarily produce the most favorable
facial appearances the Beachbody
appearance is again a safe bet for
maximizing facial attractiveness and
it's more around the 10 to 15 range
where facial Contours will be
accentuated around that level but not to
the extreme extent you see with long
distance Runners the outline of the jaw
will become defined and the cheekbones
will have slight dips depending on the
underlying bone structure and similarly
the cheekbones will seem to pop out more
in the sagittal 3D Direction the region
under the neck referred to as the sub
mental cervical region will also become
more angular as well the most attractive
values are in the 90 to 105 degree range
as outlined by 90 at all and this is not
to say that more facial definition is
always more attractive but there is a
healthy Middle Ground where the face
appears full healthy and defined the
second factor is muscular content if we
look at the extremes of competitive
bodybuilders their faces hold a lot of
muscular tone and definition that's
independent of their body fat levels
this is because the face has muscles as
well especially when exposed to
exogenous hormones the facial
musculature will also increase but more
muscle doesn't necessarily mean more
attractiveness this affects our
appearance the effect is not as
pronounced as your body fat changes
especially for non-bodybuilders but
muscular content does still make a
noticeable difference for example you
can build a masseter muscles which are
your most powerful chewing muscles and
this will result in a wider more angular
appearance of the jaw over development
of the master muscles can lead to an
unpleasantly full chipmunk appearance so
you have to be careful not to over
develop the facial muscles either women
will typically get massive Botox to get
the appearance of a Slimmer jaw the neck
musculature is also changeable and has a
surprisingly large role in how the face
appears some male models are
considerably muscular and still they are
not outside of the realm of normality
the faces do not appear too full or too
muscular the ideal amount of muscular
composition in terms of a pleasant
facial appearance is determined by one's
BMI level that's relative to their body
fat percentage so if we assume an
individual is in the ideal body fat
percentage of say 15 to 25 for women and
8 to 17 for men the normal BMI range of
18 to 25 is typically a good guide it's
difficult to get above the upper
threshold especially if your body fat is
on the lower end of that Spectrum this
simply looks like an athletic fit
individual they are neither too lean or
too fat and similarly most attractive
faces are not too muscular or thin
either of course it's possible to be
attractive at either extremes but
averageness tends to produce the most
healthy looking faces this applies not
only to facial proportions but also
Symmetry and bodily composition and
generally appearing normal is a strong
cue into health and beauty face of high
averageness is going to be highly
attractive and a paradox exists whereby
in normal attractive phase is actually
going to be lower in averageness it's
going to have more blemishes more
asymmetries and more deformities the
takeaway here is that there is less
emphasis on the exact value of the body
fat percentage or the BMI rather
recognizing that there is a range that
appears more healthy and and does make
the face appear more attractive a few
cues to pick up on uh say the flat
abdominal region you know having six
packs a higher waist to hip ratio for
women specifically a more defined jaw
and cheekbones being relatively strong
and athletic more so for men and these
are indicators of things that will
generally help you get a more defined
face these tend to come packaged with an
attractive face it is difficult to
precisely tell what body fat percentage
somebody is even with technology like
dexa scans there is inaccuracy a good
tip is to focus on the overarching body
composition instead of getting caught up
on a specific number or bodily shape our
face is the primary indicator of our
health with clothes on and it's
difficult for somebody of the opposite
sex to identify body composition cues
just from looking at it interface can
change drastically with changes to body
fat it serves as a great guide for
helping you look your best being at a
reasonable body fat percentage is going
to ensure that your facial structure
looks better and to see how facial fat
affects specific facial structures you
can refer to this video there if you'd
like to get your face assessed and find
out more about your facial structures
your facial fat and how you can improve
or change the way that you look head
over to the curves website and get an
assessment performed by a team of
doctors and dentists as always I'll
catch you in the next one

=== Private video ===
Transcripts are disabled for this video.

=== Private video ===
Transcripts are disabled for this video.

